.TH deductionguidesforstd::basic_string 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
deductionguidesforstd::basic_string \- deductionguidesforstd::basic_string

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <string>
   template<class InputIt, class Alloc = std::allocator<

                             typename
   std::iterator_traits<InputIt>::value_type>>
   basic_string(InputIt, InputIt, Alloc = Alloc())
   -> basic_string<typename                                           \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   std::iterator_traits<InputIt>::value_type,
                   std::char_traits<typename
   std::iterator_traits<InputIt>::value_type>,

                   Alloc>;
   template<class CharT,

            class Traits,
            class Alloc = std::allocator<CharT>>                      \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   explicit basic_string(std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>, const
   Alloc& = Alloc())

   -> basic_string<CharT, Traits, Alloc>;
   template<class CharT,

            class Traits,
            class Alloc = std::allocator<CharT>>>
   basic_string(std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>, typename /*see \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   below*/::size_type,
                typename /*see below*/::size_type, const Alloc& =
   Alloc())

       -> basic_string<CharT, Traits, Alloc>;

   1) This deduction guide is provided for std::basic_string to allow deduction from an
   iterator range. This overload only participates in overload resolution if InputIt
   satisfies LegacyInputIterator and Alloc satisfies Allocator.
   2-3) These deduction guides are provided for std::basic_string to allow deduction
   from a std::basic_string_view. The size_type parameter type in \fB(3)\fP refers to the
   size_type member type of the type deduced by the deduction guide. These overloads
   only participate in overload resolution if Alloc satisfies Allocator.

   Note: the extent to which the library determines that a type does not satisfy
   LegacyInputIterator is unspecified, except that as a minimum integral types do not
   qualify as input iterators. Likewise, the extent to which it determines that a type
   does not satisfy Allocator is unspecified, except that as a minimum the member type
   Alloc::value_type must exist and the expression
   std::declval<Alloc&>().allocate(std::size_t{}) must be well-formed when treated as
   an unevaluated operand.

.SH Notes

   Guides (2-3) are needed because the std::basic_string constructors for
   std::basic_string_views are made templates to avoid causing ambiguities in existing
   code, and those templates do not support class template argument deduction.

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to             Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 3075 C++17      deduction from basic_string_view was           deduction guides
                       unsupported (exacerbated by LWG issue 2946)    added

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <string>
 #include <vector>
 int main() {
    std::vector<char> v = {'a', 'b', 'c'};
    std::basic_string s(v.begin(), v.end()); // uses explicit deduction guide
 }
