.TH std::experimental::ranges::advance 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::ranges::advance \- std::experimental::ranges::advance

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/ranges/iterator>
   namespace {
                                                                   (ranges TS)
   constexpr /* unspecified */ advance = /* unspecified */;        (customization point
                                                                   object)
   }
   Call signature
   template< Iterator I >
   constexpr void advance(I& i, ranges::difference_type_t<I>   \fB(1)\fP
   n);
   template< Iterator I, Sentinel<I> S >                       \fB(2)\fP
   constexpr void advance(I& i, S bound);
   template< Iterator I, Sentinel<I> S >
   constexpr ranges::difference_type_t<I> advance(I& i,        \fB(3)\fP
   ranges::difference_type_t<I> n, S bound);

   Advances the iterator i n times, or until bound is reached, whichever comes first.

   1) If I models RandomAccessIterator, equivalent to i += n. Otherwise, increments (or
   decrements if n is negative) i n times. The behavior is undefined if n is negative
   and I does not model BidirectionalIterator.
   2) If Assignable<I&, S> is satisfied, equivalent to {{{1}}}.
   Otherwise, if [i, bound) does not denote a range, the behavior is undefined.
   Otherwise, if SizedSentinel<S, I> is satisfied, equivalent to ranges::advance(i,
   bound - i).
   Otherwise, increments i until i == bound.
   3) If SizedSentinel<S, I> is satisfied, equivalent to ranges::advance(i, bound) if
   |n| >= |bound - i|, and ranges::advance(i, n) otherwise.
   Otherwise, increments (or decrements if n is negative) i either n times or until i
   == bound, whichever comes first.
   If n > 0, [i, bound) shall denote a range; if n == 0, either [i, bound) or [bound,
   i) shall denote a range; if n < 0, [bound, i) shall denote a range, I and S shall be
   the same type, and I must model BidirectionalIterator. Otherwise, the behavior is
   undefined.

  Customization point objects

   The name ranges::advance denotes a customization point object, which is a function
   object of a literal Semiregular class type (denoted, for exposition purposes, as
   AdvanceT). All instances of AdvanceT are equal. Thus, ranges::advance can be copied
   freely and its copies can be used interchangeably.

   Given a set of types Args..., if std::declval<Args>()... meet the requirements for
   arguments to ranges::advance above, AdvanceT will satisfy ranges::Invocable<const
   AdvanceT, Args...>. Otherwise, no function call operator of AdvanceT participates in
   overload resolution.

   In every translation unit in which ranges::advance is defined, it refers to the same
   instance of the customization point object. (This means that it can be used freely
   in things like inline functions and function templates without violating the
   one-definition rule.)

.SH Return value

   1-2) \fI(none)\fP
   3) The number of increment/decrements not performed due to reaching bound. In other
   words, n - M, where M is the distance from the starting position of i to the ending
   position and is negative if the ending position is before the starting position.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   advance  advances an iterator by given distance
            \fI(function template)\fP
            returns the distance between an iterator and a sentinel, or between the
   distance beginning and the end of a range
            \fI(function template)\fP
   next     increment an iterator
            \fI(function template)\fP
   prev     decrement an iterator
            \fI(function template)\fP
