.TH std::make_shared 3 "2019.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::make_shared \- std::make_shared

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <memory>
   template< class T, class... Args >                              \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   shared_ptr<T> make_shared( Args&&... args );                        (T is not array)
   template<class T>                                               \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   shared_ptr<T> make_shared(std::size_t N);                           (T is U[])
   template<class T>                                               \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   shared_ptr<T> make_shared();                                        (T is U[N])
   template<class T>                                                   \fI(since C++20)\fP
   shared_ptr<T> make_shared(std::size_t N, const                  \fB(4)\fP (T is U[])
   std::remove_extent_t<T>& u);
   template<class T>                                               \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   shared_ptr<T> make_shared(const std::remove_extent_t<T>& u);        (T is U[N])

   1) Constructs an object of type T and wraps it in a std::shared_ptr using args as
   the parameter list for the constructor of T. The object is constructed as if by the
   expression ::new (pv) T(std::forward<Args>(args)...), where pv is an internal void*
   pointer to storage suitable to hold an object of type T. The storage is typically
   larger than sizeof(T) in order to use one allocation for both the control block of
   the shared pointer and the T object. The std::shared_ptr constructor called by this
   function enables shared_from_this with a pointer to the newly constructed object of
   type T. This overload only participates in overload resolution if T is not an array
   type
   2,3) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but the element constructed is a possibly-multidimensional array
   whose non-array elements of type std::remove_all_extents_t<T> are value-initialized
   as if by placement-new expression ::new(pv) std::remove_all_extents_t<T>(). The
   overload \fB(2)\fP creates an array of size N along the first dimension. The array
   elements are initialized in ascending order of their addresses, and when their
   lifetime ends are destroyed in the reverse order of their original construction.
   4,5) Same as (2,3), but every element is initialized from the default value u. If U
   is not an array type, then this is performed as if by the same placement-new
   expression as in \fB(1)\fP; otherwise, this is performed as if by initializing every
   non-array element of the (possibly multidimensional) array with the corresponding
   element from u with the same placement-new expression as in \fB(1)\fP. The overload \fB(4)\fP
   creates an array of size N along the first dimension. The array elements are
   initialized in ascending order of their addresses, and when their lifetime ends are
   destroyed in the reverse order of their original construction.

.SH Parameters

   args - list of arguments with which an instance of T will be constructed.
   N    - array size to use
   u    - the initial value to initialize every element of the array

.SH Return value

   std::shared_ptr of an instance of type T.

.SH Exceptions

   May throw std::bad_alloc or any exception thrown by the constructor of T. If an
   exception is thrown, the functions have no effect.
   If an exception is thrown during the construction of the array, already-initialized
   elements are destroyed in reverse order.
   \fI(since C++20)\fP

.SH Notes

   This function may be used as an alternative to std::shared_ptr<T>(new T(args...)).
   The trade-offs are:

     * std::shared_ptr<T>(new T(args...)) performs at least two allocations (one for
       the object T and one for the control block of the shared pointer), while
       std::make_shared<T> typically performs only one allocation (the standard
       recommends, but does not require this, all known implementations do this)
     * If any std::weak_ptr references the control block created by std::make_shared
       after the lifetime of all shared owners ended, the memory occupied by T persists
       until all weak owners get destroyed as well, which may be undesirable if
       sizeof(T) is large.
     * std::shared_ptr<T>(new T(args...)) may call a non-public constructor of T if
       executed in context where it is accessible, while std::make_shared requires
       public access to the selected constructor.
     * Unlike the std::shared_ptr constructors, std::make_shared does not allow a
       custom deleter.
     * std::make_shared uses ::new, so if any special behavior has been set up using a
       class-specific operator new, it will differ from std::shared_ptr<T>(new
       T(args...)).

     * std::shared_ptr supports array types (as of C++17), but
       std::make_shared does not. This functionality is supported by      \fI(until C++20)\fP
       boost::make_shared

     * code such as f(std::shared_ptr<int>(new int\fB(42)\fP), g()) can cause a
       memory leak if g gets called after new int\fB(42)\fP and throws an       \fI(until C++17)\fP
       exception, while f(std::make_shared<int>\fB(42)\fP, g()) is safe, since
       two function calls are never interleaved.

   A constructor enables shared_from_this with a pointer ptr of type U* means that it
   determines if U has an
   unambiguous and accessible
   \fI(since C++17)\fP base class that is a specialization of std::enable_shared_from_this,
   and if so, the constructor evaluates the statement:

 if (ptr != nullptr && ptr->weak_this.expired())
   ptr->weak_this = std::shared_ptr<std::remove_cv_t<U>>(*this,
                                   const_cast<std::remove_cv_t<U>*>(ptr));

   Where weak_this is the hidden mutable std::weak_ptr member of std::shared_from_this.
   The assignment to the weak_this member is not atomic and conflicts with any
   potentially concurrent access to the same object. This ensures that future calls to
   shared_from_this() would share ownership with the shared_ptr created by this raw
   pointer constructor.

   The test ptr->weak_this.expired() in the exposition code above makes sure that
   weak_this is not reassigned if it already indicates an owner. This test is required
   as of C++17.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <memory>
  
 void foo(const std::shared_ptr<int>& i)
 {
     (*i)++;
 }
  
 int main()
 {
     auto sp = std::make_shared<int>(12);
     foo(sp);
     std::cout << *sp << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 13

.SH See also

   constructor     constructs new shared_ptr
                   \fI(public member function)\fP 
                   creates a shared pointer that manages a new object allocated using
   allocate_shared an allocator
                   \fI(function template)\fP 
   make_unique     creates a unique pointer that manages a new object
   \fI(C++14)\fP         \fI(function template)\fP 
   operator new    allocation functions
   operator new[]  \fI(function)\fP 
