.TH std::chrono::year_month_day::operatorsys_days,std::chrono::year_month_day::operator 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::year_month_day::operatorsys_days,std::chrono::year_month_day::operator \- std::chrono::year_month_day::operatorsys_days,std::chrono::year_month_day::operator

.SH Synopsis

   constexpr operator std::chrono::sys_days() const noexcept;         \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   explicit constexpr operator std::chrono::local_days() const        \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   noexcept;

   Converts *this to a std::chrono::time_point representing the same date as this
   year_month_day.

   1) If ok() is true, the return value holds a count of days from the
   std::chrono::system_clock epoch (1970-01-01) to *this. The result is negative if
   *this represent a date prior to it.
   Otherwise, if the stored year and month are valid (year().ok() && month().ok() is
   true), then the returned value is sys_days(year()/month()/1d) + (day() - 1d).
   Otherwise (if year().ok() && month().ok() is false), the return value is
   unspecified.
   A std::chrono::sys_days in the range [std::chrono::days{-12687428},
   std::chrono::days{11248737}], when converted to year_month_day and back, yields the
   same value.
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP but returns local_days instead. Equivalent to return
   local_days(sys_days(*this).time_since_epoch());.

.SH Notes

   Converting to std::chrono::sys_days and back can be used to normalize a
   year_month_day that contains an invalid day but a valid year and month:

 using namespace std::chrono;
 auto ymd = 2017y/January/0;
 ymd = sys_days{ymd};
 // ymd is now 2016y/December/31

   Normalizing the year and month can be done by adding (or subtracting) zero
   std::chrono::months:

 using namespace std::chrono;
 constexpr year_month_day normalize(year_month_day ymd){
     ymd += months{0}; // normalizes year and month
     return sys_days{ymd}; // normalizes day
 }
 static_assert(normalize(2017y/33/59) == 2019y/10/29);

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <chrono>

 void print(std::chrono::year_month_day const ymd) {
 //  std::cout << ymd; // when C++20 stream operator<< ready, or:
     std::cout << static_cast<int>(ymd.year()) << '/'
               << std::setw(2) << std::setfill('0')
               << static_cast<unsigned>(ymd.month()) << '/'
               << std::setw(2) << static_cast<unsigned>(ymd.day());
 }

 int main()
 {
     using namespace std::chrono;
     const auto today = sys_days{floor<days>(system_clock::now())};
     for (const year_month_day ymd : { {November/15/2020}, {November/15/2120}, today }) {
         print(ymd);
         const auto delta = (sys_days{ymd} - today).count();
         (delta < 0) ? std::cout << " was " << -delta << " day(s) ago\\n" :
         (delta > 0) ? std::cout << " is " << delta << " day(s) from now\\n"
                     : std::cout << " is today!\\n";
     }
 }

.SH Possible output:

 2020/11/15 was 290 day(s) ago
 2120/11/15 is 36234 day(s) from now
 2021/09/01 is today!
