.TH std::basic_string_view::rfind 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_string_view::rfind \- std::basic_string_view::rfind

.SH Synopsis
   constexpr size_type rfind( basic_string_view v, size_type pos =    \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   npos ) const noexcept;
   constexpr size_type rfind( CharT ch, size_type pos = npos ) const  \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   noexcept;
   constexpr size_type rfind( const CharT* s, size_type pos,          \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   size_type count ) const;
   constexpr size_type rfind( const CharT* s, size_type pos = npos )  \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   const;

   Finds the last substring that is equal to the given character sequence. The search
   begins at pos and proceeds from right to left (thus, the found substring, if any,
   cannot begin in a position following pos). If npos or any value not smaller than
   size() - 1 is passed as pos, the whole string will be searched.

   1) Finds the last occurrence of v in this view, starting at position pos.
   2) Equivalent to rfind(basic_string_view(std::addressof(ch), 1), pos).
   3) Equivalent to rfind(basic_string_view(s, count), pos).
   4) Equivalent to rfind(basic_string_view(s), pos).

.SH Parameters

   v     - view to search for
   pos   - position at which to start the search
   count - length of substring to search for
   s     - pointer to a character string to search for
   ch    - character to search for

.SH Return value

   Position of the first character of the found substring or npos if no such substring
   is found.

.SH Complexity

   O(size() * v.size()) at worst.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <string_view>

 int main()
 {
     using namespace std::literals;
     constexpr auto N = std::string_view::npos;

     static_assert(true
         && (6 == "AB AB AB"sv.rfind("AB"))
         && (6 == "AB AB AB"sv.rfind("ABCD", N, 2))
         && (3 == "AB AB AB"sv.rfind("AB", 5))
         && (0 == "AB CD EF"sv.rfind("AB", 0))
         && (2 == "B AB AB "sv.rfind("AB", 2))
         && (N == "B AB AB "sv.rfind("AB", 1))
         && (5 == "B AB AB "sv.rfind('A'))
         && (4 == "AB AB AB"sv.rfind('B', 4))
         && (N == "AB AB AB"sv.rfind('C'))
     );
 }

.SH See also

   find              find characters in the view
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_first_of     find first occurrence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_last_of      find last occurrence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_first_not_of find first absence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_last_not_of  find last absence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
                     find the last occurrence of a substring
   rfind             \fI\fI(public member\fP function of\fP
                     std::basic_string<CharT,Traits,Allocator>)
