.TH std::log 3 "2019.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::log \- std::log

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float       log( float arg );        \fB(1)\fP
   double      log( double arg );       \fB(2)\fP
   long double log( long double arg );  \fB(3)\fP
   double      log( IntegralType arg ); \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   1-3) Computes the natural (base e) logarithm of arg.
   4) A set of overloads or a function template accepting an argument of any integral
   type. Equivalent to 2) (the argument is cast to double).

.SH Parameters

   arg - value of floating-point or Integral type

.SH Return value

   If no errors occur, the natural (base-e) logarithm of arg (ln(arg) or log
   e(arg)) is returned.

   If a domain error occurs, an implementation-defined value is returned (NaN where
   supported)

   If a pole error occurs, -HUGE_VAL, -HUGE_VALF, or -HUGE_VALL is returned.

.SH Error handling

   Errors are reported as specified in math_errhandling

   Domain error occurs if arg is less than zero.

   Pole error may occur if arg is zero.

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * If the argument is ±0, -∞ is returned and FE_DIVBYZERO is raised.
     * If the argument is 1, +0 is returned
     * If the argument is negative, NaN is returned and FE_INVALID is raised.
     * If the argument is +∞, +∞ is returned
     * If the argument is NaN, NaN is returned

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <cerrno>
 #include <cstring>
 #include <cfenv>
 #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS ON
 int main()
 {
     std::cout << "log(1) = " << std::log(1) << '\\n'
               << "base-5 logarithm of 125 = " << std::log(125)/std::log(5) << '\\n';
     // special values
     std::cout << "log(1) = " << std::log(1) << '\\n'
               << "log(+Inf) = " << std::log(INFINITY) << '\\n';
     // error handling
     errno=0; std::feclearexcept(FE_ALL_EXCEPT);
     std::cout << "log(0) = " << std::log(0) << '\\n';
     if(errno == ERANGE)
         std::cout << "    errno == ERANGE: " << std::strerror(errno) << '\\n';
     if(std::fetestexcept(FE_DIVBYZERO))
         std::cout << "    FE_DIVBYZERO raised\\n";
 }

.SH Possible output:

 log\fB(1)\fP = 0
 base-5 logarithm of 125 = 3
 log\fB(1)\fP = 0
 log(+Inf) = inf
 log\fB(0)\fP = -inf
     errno == ERANGE: Numerical result out of range
     FE_DIVBYZERO raised

.SH See also

   log10              computes common (base 10) logarithm (log[10](x))
                      \fI(function)\fP 
   log2               base 2 logarithm of the given number (log[2](x))
   \fI(C++11)\fP            \fI(function)\fP 
   log1p              natural logarithm (to base e) of 1 plus the given number
   \fI(C++11)\fP            (ln(1+x))
                      \fI(function)\fP 
   exp                returns e raised to the given power (e^x)
                      \fI(function)\fP 
                      complex natural logarithm with the branch cuts along the negative
   log(std::complex)  real axis
                      \fI(function template)\fP 
   log(std::valarray) applies the function std::log to each element of valarray
                      \fI(function template)\fP 
   C documentation for
   log
