.TH std::set_new_handler 3 "Nov 16 2016" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::set_new_handler \- std::set_new_handler

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <new>
   std::new_handler set_new_handler( std::new_handler new_p );

   Makes new_p the new global new-handler function and returns the previously installed
   new-handler.

   The new-handler function is the function called by allocation functions whenever a
   memory allocation attempt fails. Its intended purpose is one of three things:

   1) make more memory available
   2) terminate the program (e.g. by calling std::terminate)
   3) throw exception of type std::bad_alloc or derived from std::bad_alloc.

   The default implementation throws std::bad_alloc. The user can install his own
   new-handler, which may offer behavior different than the default one.

   If new-handler returns, the allocation function repeats the previously-failed
   allocation attempt and calls the new-handler again if the allocation fails again. To
   end the loop, new-handler may call std::set_new_handler(nullptr): if, after a failed
   allocation attempt, allocation function finds that std::get_new_handler returns a
   null pointer value, it will throw std::bad_alloc.

   At program startup, new-handler is a null pointer.

   This function is thread-safe. Every call to std::set_new_handler
   synchronizes-with (see std::memory_order) the subsequent               \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::set_new_handler and std::get_new_handler calls.

.SH Parameters

   new_p - pointer to function of type std::new_handler, or null pointer

.SH Return value

   The previously-installed new handler, or a null pointer value if none was installed.

.SH Exceptions

   \fI(none)\fP                  \fI(until C++11)\fP
   noexcept specification: \fI(since C++11)\fP
   noexcept

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <new>

 void handler()
 {
     std::cout << "Memory allocation failed, terminating\\n";
     std::set_new_handler(nullptr);
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::set_new_handler(handler);
     try {
         while (true) {
             new int[100000000ul];
         }
     } catch (const std::bad_alloc& e) {
         std::cout << e.what() << '\\n';
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 Memory allocation failed, terminating
 std::bad_alloc

.SH See also

   operator new    allocation functions
   operator new[]  \fI(function)\fP
   get_new_handler obtains the current new handler
   \fI(C++11)\fP         \fI(function)\fP
   new_handler     function pointer type of the new handler
                   \fI(typedef)\fP
   bad_alloc       exception thrown when memory allocation fails
                   \fI(class)\fP

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept
