.TH std::pop_heap 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::pop_heap \- std::pop_heap

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class RandomIt >                               \fB(1)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   void pop_heap( RandomIt first, RandomIt last );
   template< class RandomIt, class Compare >
   void pop_heap( RandomIt first, RandomIt last, Compare    \fB(2)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   comp );

   Swaps the value in the position first and the value in the position last - 1 and
   makes the subrange [first, last - 1) into a heap. This has the effect of removing
   the first element from the heap [first, last).

   1) [first, last) is a heap with respect to
   operator<
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::less{}
   \fI(since C++20)\fP.
   2) [first, last) is a heap with respect to comp.

   If [first, last) not a non-empty heap, the behavior is undefined.

   If any of the following conditions is satisfied, the behavior is undefined:

     * [first, last) is empty.
     * [first, last) is not a heap.

     * The type of *first is not Swappable.           \fI(until C++11)\fP
     * RandomIt is not ValueSwappable.
     * The type of *first is not MoveConstructible.   \fI(since C++11)\fP
     * The type of *first is not MoveAssignable.

.SH Parameters

   first, last -  the non-empty heap to modify
                  comparison function object (i.e. an object that satisfies the
                  requirements of Compare) which returns true if the first argument is
                  less than the second.

                  The signature of the comparison function should be equivalent to the
                  following:

                  bool cmp(const Type1& a, const Type2& b);
   comp        -
                  While the signature does not need to have const&, the function must
                  not modify the objects passed to it and must be able to accept all
                  values of type (possibly const) Type1 and Type2 regardless of value
                  category (thus, Type1& is not allowed
                  , nor is Type1 unless for Type1 a move is equivalent to a copy
                  \fI(since C++11)\fP).
                  The types Type1 and Type2 must be such that an object of type
                  RandomIt can be dereferenced and then implicitly converted to both of
                  them.
.SH Type requirements
   -
   RandomIt must meet the requirements of LegacyRandomAccessIterator.
   -
   Compare must meet the requirements of Compare.

.SH Complexity

   Given \\(\\scriptsize N\\)N as std::distance(first, last):

   1) At most \\(\\scriptsize 2\\log(N)\\)2log(N) comparisons using
   operator<
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::less{}
   \fI(since C++20)\fP.
   2) At most \\(\\scriptsize 2\\log(N)\\)2log(N) applications of the comparison function
   comp.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string_view>
 #include <type_traits>
 #include <vector>

 void println(std::string_view rem, const auto& v)
 {
     std::cout << rem;
     if constexpr (std::is_scalar_v<std::decay_t<decltype(v)>>)
         std::cout << v;
     else
         for (int e : v)
             std::cout << e << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> v{3, 1, 4, 1, 5, 9};

     std::make_heap(v.begin(), v.end());
     println("after make_heap: ", v);

     std::pop_heap(v.begin(), v.end()); // moves the largest to the end
     println("after pop_heap:  ", v);

     int largest = v.back();
     println("largest element: ", largest);

     v.pop_back(); // actually removes the largest element
     println("after pop_back:  ", v);
 }

.SH Output:

 after make_heap: 9 5 4 1 1 3
 after pop_heap:  5 3 4 1 1 9
 largest element: 9
 after pop_back:  5 3 4 1 1

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to         Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 1205 C++98      the behavior was unclear if            the behavior is undefined
                       [first, last) is empty                 in this case

.SH See also

   push_heap        adds an element to a max heap
                    \fI(function template)\fP
   is_heap          checks if the given range is a max heap
   \fI(C++11)\fP          \fI(function template)\fP
   is_heap_until    finds the largest subrange that is a max heap
   \fI(C++11)\fP          \fI(function template)\fP
   make_heap        creates a max heap out of a range of elements
                    \fI(function template)\fP
   sort_heap        turns a max heap into a range of elements sorted in ascending order
                    \fI(function template)\fP
   ranges::pop_heap removes the largest element from a max heap
   (C++20)          (niebloid)
