.TH std::is_sorted_until 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::is_sorted_until \- std::is_sorted_until

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class ForwardIt >                                  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   ForwardIt is_sorted_until( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt    \fB(1)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   last );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class ForwardIt >

   ForwardIt is_sorted_until( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP

                              ForwardIt first, ForwardIt
   last );
   template< class ForwardIt, class Compare >

   ForwardIt is_sorted_until( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt    \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   last,                                                        (constexpr since C++20)

                              Compare comp );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class ForwardIt, class
   Compare >

   ForwardIt is_sorted_until( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,     \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
                              ForwardIt first, ForwardIt
   last,

                              Compare comp );

   Examines the range [first, last) and finds the largest range beginning at first in
   which the elements are sorted in non-descending order.

   1) Finds the largest range whether elements are sorted with respect to
   operator<
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::less{}
   \fI(since C++20)\fP.
   3) Finds the largest range whether elements are sorted with respect to comp.
   2,4) Same as (1,3), but executed according to policy.
   These overloads participate in overload resolution only if

   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true.        (until
                                                                             C++20)
   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::remove_cvref_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true. (since
                                                                             C++20)

.SH Parameters

   first, last - the range of elements to examine
   policy      - the execution policy to use. See execution policy for details.
                 comparison function object (i.e. an object that satisfies the
                 requirements of Compare) which returns true if the first argument is
                 less than (i.e. is ordered before) the second.

                 The signature of the comparison function should be equivalent to the
                 following:

                 bool cmp(const Type1& a, const Type2& b);
   comp        -
                 While the signature does not need to have const&, the function must
                 not modify the objects passed to it and must be able to accept all
                 values of type (possibly const) Type1 and Type2 regardless of value
                 category (thus, Type1& is not allowed
                 , nor is Type1 unless for Type1 a move is equivalent to a copy
                 \fI(since C++11)\fP).
                 The types Type1 and Type2 must be such that an object of type
                 ForwardIt can be dereferenced and then implicitly converted to both of
                 them.
.SH Type requirements
   -
   ForwardIt must meet the requirements of LegacyForwardIterator.
   -
   Compare must meet the requirements of Compare.

.SH Return value

   The upper bound of the largest range beginning at first in which the elements are
   sorted in ascending order. That is, the last iterator it for which range [first, it)
   is sorted.

   Returns last for empty ranges and ranges of length one.

.SH Complexity

   Given \\(\\scriptsize N\\)N as std::distance(first, last):

   1,2) \\(\\scriptsize O(N)\\)O(N) comparisons using
   operator<
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::less{}
   \fI(since C++20)\fP.
   3,4) \\(\\scriptsize O(N)\\)O(N) applications of the comparator comp.

.SH Exceptions

   The overloads with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy report errors as
   follows:

     * If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception
       and ExecutionPolicy is one of the standard policies, std::terminate is called.
       For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.
     * If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

.SH Possible implementation

   See also the implementations in libstdc++ and libc++.

                             is_sorted_until \fB(1)\fP
   template<class ForwardIt>
   constexpr //< since C++20
   ForwardIt is_sorted_until(ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last)
   {
       return std::is_sorted_until(first, last, std::less<>());
   }
                             is_sorted_until \fB(2)\fP
   template<class ForwardIt, class Compare>
   constexpr //< since C++20
   ForwardIt is_sorted_until(ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last, Compare comp)
   {
       if (first != last)
       {
           ForwardIt next = first;
           while (++next != last)
           {
               if (comp(*next, *first))
                   return next;
               first = next;
           }
       }
       return last;
   }

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <cassert>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <iterator>
 #include <random>
 #include <string>

 int main()
 {
     std::random_device rd;
     std::mt19937 g(rd());
     const int N = 6;
     int nums[N] = {3, 1, 4, 1, 5, 9};

     const int min_sorted_size = 4;

     for (int sorted_size = 0; sorted_size < min_sorted_size;)
     {
         std::shuffle(nums, nums + N, g);
         int *const sorted_end = std::is_sorted_until(nums, nums + N);
         sorted_size = std::distance(nums, sorted_end);
         assert(sorted_size >= 1);

         for (const auto i : nums)
             std::cout << i << ' ';
         std::cout << ": " << sorted_size << " initial sorted elements\\n"
                   << std::string(sorted_size * 2 - 1, '^') << '\\n';
     }
 }

.SH Possible output:

 4 1 9 5 1 3 : 1 initial sorted elements
 ^
 4 5 9 3 1 1 : 3 initial sorted elements
 ^^^^^
 9 3 1 4 5 1 : 1 initial sorted elements
 ^
 1 3 5 4 1 9 : 3 initial sorted elements
 ^^^^^
 5 9 1 1 3 4 : 2 initial sorted elements
 ^^^
 4 9 1 5 1 3 : 2 initial sorted elements
 ^^^
 1 1 4 9 5 3 : 4 initial sorted elements
 ^^^^^^^

.SH See also

   is_sorted               checks whether a range is sorted into ascending order
   \fI(C++11)\fP                 \fI(function template)\fP
   ranges::is_sorted_until finds the largest sorted subrange
   (C++20)                 (niebloid)
