.TH std::all_of,std::any_of,std::none_of 3 "2019.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::all_of,std::any_of,std::none_of \- std::all_of,std::any_of,std::none_of

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class InputIt, class
   UnaryPredicate >                                 \fI(since C++11)\fP
   bool all_of( InputIt first, InputIt              \fI(until C++20)\fP
   last, UnaryPredicate p );
   template< class InputIt, class
   UnaryPredicate >                                 \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr bool all_of( InputIt first,
   InputIt last, UnaryPredicate p );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class
   ForwardIt, class UnaryPredicate >
   bool all_of( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,       \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last,
   UnaryPredicate p );
   template< class InputIt, class
   UnaryPredicate >                                               \fI(since C++11)\fP
   bool any_of( InputIt first, InputIt                            \fI(until C++20)\fP
   last, UnaryPredicate p );
   template< class InputIt, class
   UnaryPredicate >                                               \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr bool any_of( InputIt first,    \fB(1)\fP
   InputIt last, UnaryPredicate p );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class
   ForwardIt, class UnaryPredicate >
   bool any_of( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,           \fB(4)\fP           \fI(since C++17)\fP
   ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last,
   UnaryPredicate p );                          \fB(3)\fP
   template< class InputIt, class                                               (since
   UnaryPredicate >                                                             C++11)
   bool none_of( InputIt first, InputIt                                         (until
   last, UnaryPredicate p );                                                    C++20)
   template< class InputIt, class
   UnaryPredicate >                                                             (since
   constexpr bool none_of( InputIt first,           \fB(5)\fP                         C++20)
   InputIt last, UnaryPredicate p );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class
   ForwardIt, class UnaryPredicate >                                            (since
   bool none_of( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,                        \fB(6)\fP           C++17)
   ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last,
   UnaryPredicate p );

   1) Checks if unary predicate p returns true for all elements in the range [first,
   last).
   3) Checks if unary predicate p returns true for at least one element in the range
   [first, last).
   5) Checks if unary predicate p returns true for no elements in the range [first,
   last).
   2,4,6) Same as (1,3,5), but executed according to policy. These overloads do not
   participate in overload resolution unless
   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true

.SH Parameters

   first, last - the range of elements to examine
   policy      - the execution policy to use. See execution policy for details.
                 unary predicate .

                 The signature of the predicate function should be equivalent to the
                 following:

   p           -  bool pred(const Type &a);

                 The signature does not need to have const &, but the function must not
                 modify the objects passed to it.
                 The type Type must be such that an object of type InputIt can be
                 dereferenced and then implicitly converted to Type.ý¿¿½£¬
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of InputIterator.
   -
   ForwardIt must meet the requirements of ForwardIterator.
   -
   UnaryPredicate must meet the requirements of Predicate.

.SH Return value

   1-2) true if unary predicate returns true for all elements in the range, false
   otherwise. Returns true if the range is empty.
   3-4) true if unary predicate returns true for at least one element in the range,
   false otherwise. Returns false if the range is empty.
   5-6) true if unary predicate returns true for no elements in the range, false
   otherwise. Returns true if the range is empty.

.SH Complexity

   1,3,5) At most last - first applications of the predicate
   2,4,6) O(last-first) applications of the predicate

.SH Exceptions

   The overloads with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy report errors as
   follows:

     * If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception
       and ExecutionPolicy is one of the three standard policies, std::terminate is
       called. For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.
     * If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

.SH Possible implementation

.SH First version
   template< class InputIt, class UnaryPredicate >
   constexpr bool all_of(InputIt first, InputIt last, UnaryPredicate p)
   {
       return std::find_if_not(first, last, p) == last;
   }
.SH Second version
   template< class InputIt, class UnaryPredicate >
   constexpr bool any_of(InputIt first, InputIt last, UnaryPredicate p)
   {
       return std::find_if(first, last, p) != last;
   }
                               Third version
   template< class InputIt, class UnaryPredicate >
   constexpr bool none_of(InputIt first, InputIt last, UnaryPredicate p)
   {
       return std::find_if(first, last, p) == last;
   }

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <vector>
 #include <numeric>
 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iterator>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <functional>
  
 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> v(10, 2);
     std::partial_sum(v.cbegin(), v.cend(), v.begin());
     std::cout << "Among the numbers: ";
     std::copy(v.cbegin(), v.cend(), std::ostream_iterator<int>(std::cout, " "));
     std::cout << '\\n';
  
     if (std::all_of(v.cbegin(), v.cend(), [](int i){ return i % 2 == 0; })) {
         std::cout << "All numbers are even\\n";
     }
     if (std::none_of(v.cbegin(), v.cend(), std::bind(std::modulus<int>(),
                                                      std::placeholders::_1, 2))) {
         std::cout << "None of them are odd\\n";
     }
     struct DivisibleBy
     {
         const int d;
         DivisibleBy(int n) : d(n) {}
         bool operator()(int n) const { return n % d == 0; }
     };
  
     if (std::any_of(v.cbegin(), v.cend(), DivisibleBy(7))) {
         std::cout << "At least one number is divisible by 7\\n";
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 Among the numbers: 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
 All numbers are even
 None of them are odd
 At least one number is divisible by 7

.SH See also
