.TH std::filesystem::directory_entry::is_directory 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::filesystem::directory_entry::is_directory \- std::filesystem::directory_entry::is_directory

.SH Synopsis
   bool is_directory() const;                               \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   bool is_directory( std::error_code& ec ) const noexcept; \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP

   Checks whether the pointed-to object is a directory. Effectively returns:

   1) std::filesystem::is_directory(status()),
   2) std::filesystem::is_directory(status(ec)).

.SH Parameters

   ec - out-parameter for error reporting in the non-throwing overload

.SH Return value

   true if the referred-to filesystem object is a directory, false otherwise.

.SH Exceptions

   Any overload not marked noexcept may throw std::bad_alloc if memory allocation
   fails.

   1) Throws std::filesystem::filesystem_error on underlying OS API errors, constructed
   with p as the first path argument and the OS error code as the error code argument.
   2) Sets a std::error_code& parameter to the OS API error code if an OS API call
   fails, and executes ec.clear() if no errors occur.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <filesystem>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string_view>

 namespace fs = std::filesystem;

 void check_directory(fs::directory_entry const& d, std::string_view rem = "")
 {
     std::cout << "is_directory(" << d << "): " << d.is_directory() << rem << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     fs::directory_entry d1(".");
     fs::directory_entry d2("file.txt");
     fs::directory_entry d3("new_dir");

     std::cout << std::boolalpha;

     check_directory(d1);
     check_directory(d2);
     check_directory(d3, " (has not been created yet).");

     std::filesystem::create_directory("new_dir");

     check_directory(d3, " (before refresh).");
     d3.refresh();
     check_directory(d3, " (after refresh).");
 }

.SH Possible output:

 is_directory("."): true
 is_directory("file.txt"): false
 is_directory("new_dir"): false (has not been created yet).
 is_directory("new_dir"): false (before refresh).
 is_directory("new_dir"): true (after refresh).

.SH See also

   is_directory checks whether the given path refers to a directory
   \fI(C++17)\fP      \fI(function)\fP
