.TH std::ungetwc 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ungetwc \- std::ungetwc

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cwchar>
   wint_t ungetwc( wint_t ch, std::FILE* stream );

   If ch does not equal WEOF, pushes the wide character ch into the input buffer
   associated with the stream stream in such a manner than subsequent read operation
   from stream will retrieve that wide character. The external device associated with
   the stream is not modified.

   Stream repositioning operations std::fseek, std::fsetpos, and std::rewind discard
   the effects of ungetwc.

   If ungetwc is called more than once without an intervening read or repositioning, it
   may fail (in other words, a pushback buffer of size 1 is guaranteed, but any larger
   buffer is implementation-defined). If multiple successful ungetwc were performed,
   read operations retrieve the pushed-back wide characters in reverse order of ungetwc

   If ch equals WEOF, the operation fails and the stream is not affected.

   A successful call to ungetwc clears the end of file status flag feof.

   A successful call to ungetwc on a stream (whether text or binary) modifies the
   stream position indicator in unspecified manner but guarantees that after all
   pushed-back wide characters are retrieved with a read operation, the stream position
   indicator is equal to its value before ungetwc.

.SH Parameters

   ch     - wide character to be put back
   stream - file stream to put the wide character back to

.SH Return value

   On success ch is returned.

   On failure WEOF is returned and the given stream remains unchanged.

.SH See also

   ungetc puts a character back into a file stream
          \fI(function)\fP
   fgetwc gets a wide character from a file stream
   getwc  \fI(function)\fP
