.TH std::signal 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::signal \- std::signal

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <csignal>
   /*signal-handler*/* signal(int sig, /*signal-handler*/* handler);   \fB(1)\fP
   extern "C" using /*signal-handler*/ = void(int); // exposition-only \fB(2)\fP

   Sets the handler for signal sig. The signal handler can be set so that default
   handling will occur, signal is ignored, or a user-defined function is called.

   When signal handler is set to a function and a signal occurs, it is implementation
   defined whether std::signal(sig, SIG_DFL) will be executed immediately before the
   start of signal handler. Also, the implementation can prevent some
   implementation-defined set of signals from occurring while the signal handler runs.

   For some of the signals, the implementation may call std::signal(sig, SIG_IGN) at
   the startup of the program. For the rest, the implementation must call
   std::signal(sig, SIG_DFL).

   (Note: POSIX introduced sigaction to standardize these implementation-defined
   behaviors)

.SH Parameters

             the signal to set the signal handler to. It can be an
             implementation-defined value or one of the following values:

             SIGABRT
   sig     - SIGFPE
             SIGILL  defines signal types
             SIGINT  (macro constant)
             SIGSEGV
             SIGTERM
             the signal handler. This must be one of the following:

               * SIG_DFL macro. The signal handler is set to default signal handler.
   handler -   * SIG_IGN macro. The signal is ignored.
               * pointer to a function. The signature of the function must be
                 equivalent to the following:

             extern "C" void fun(int sig);

.SH Return value

   Previous signal handler on success or SIG_ERR on failure (setting a signal handler
   can be disabled on some implementations).

  Signal handler

   The following limitations are imposed on the user-defined function that is installed
   as a signal handler.

   If the signal handler is called NOT as a result of std::abort or
   std::raise (asynchronous signal), the behavior is undefined if

     * the signal handler calls any function within the standard library,
       except

         * std::abort
         * std::_Exit                                                     \fI(until C++17)\fP
         * std::quick_exit
         * std::signal with the first argument being the number of the
           signal currently handled (async handler can re-register
           itself, but not other signals).

     * the signal handler refers to any object with static storage
       duration that is not std::atomic\fI(since C++11)\fP or volatile
       std::sig_atomic_t.
   The behavior is undefined if any signal handler performs any of the
   following:

     * call to any library function, except the following signal-safe
       functions (note, in particular, dynamic allocation is not
       signal-safe):

         * members functions of std::atomic and non-member functions from
           <atomic> if the atomic type they operate on is lock-free. The
           functions std::atomic_is_lock_free and
           std::atomic::is_lock_free are signal-safe for any atomic type.
         * std::signal with the first argument being the number of the
           signal currently handled (signal handler can re-register
           itself, but not other signals).
         * member functions of std::numeric_limits
         * std::_Exit
         * std::abort                                                     \fI(since C++17)\fP
         * std::quick_exit
         * The member functions of std::initializer_list and the
           std::initializer_list overloads of std::begin and std::end
         * std::forward, std::move, std::move_if_noexcept
         * All functions from <type_traits>
         * std::memcpy and std::memmove

     * access to an object with thread storage duration
     * a dynamic_cast expression
     * a throw expression
     * entry to a try block, including function-try-block
     * initialization of a static variable that performs dynamic
       non-local initialization (including delayed until first ODR-use)
     * waits for completion of initialization of any variable with static
       storage duration due to another thread concurrently initializing
       it

   If the user defined function returns when handling SIGFPE, SIGILL, SIGSEGV or any
   other implementation-defined signal specifying a computational exception, the
   behavior is undefined.

   If the signal handler is called as a result of std::abort or std::raise (synchronous
   signal), the behavior is undefined if the signal handler calls std::raise.

   On entry to the signal handler, the state of the floating-point
   environment and the values of all objects is unspecified, except for

     * objects of type volatile std::sig_atomic_t
     * objects of lock-free std::atomic types \fI(since C++11)\fP
     * side effects made visible through std::atomic_signal_fence (since  \fI(until C++14)\fP
       C++11)

   On return from a signal handler, the value of any object modified by
   the signal handler that is not volatile std::sig_atomic_t or lock-free
   std::atomic is indeterminate.
   A call to the function signal() synchronizes-with any resulting
   invocation of the signal handler.

   If a signal handler is executed as a result of a call to std::raise
   (synchronously), then the execution of the handler is sequenced-after
   the invocation of std::raise and sequenced-before the return from it
   and runs on the same thread as std::raise. Execution of the handlers
   for other signals is unsequenced with respect to the rest of the
   program and runs on an unspecified thread.
                                                                          \fI(since C++14)\fP
   Two accesses to the same object of type volatile std::sig_atomic_t do
   not result in a data race if both occur in the same thread, even if
   one or more occurs in a signal handler. For each signal handler
   invocation, evaluations performed by the thread invoking a signal
   handler can be divided into two groups A and B, such that no
   evaluations in B happen-before evaluations in A, and the evaluations
   of such volatile std::sig_atomic_t objects take values as though all
   evaluations in A happened-before the execution of the signal handler
   and the execution of the signal handler happened-before all
   evaluations in B.

.SH Notes

   POSIX requires that signal is thread-safe, and specifies a list of async-signal-safe
   library functions that may be called from any signal handler.

   Signal handlers are expected to have C linkage and, in general, only
   use the features from the common subset of C and C++. It is            \fI(until C++17)\fP
   implementation-defined if a function with C++ linkage can be used as a
   signal handler.
   There is no restriction on the linkage of signal handlers.             \fI(since C++17)\fP

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <csignal>
 #include <iostream>

 namespace
 {
   volatile std::sig_atomic_t gSignalStatus;
 }

 void signal_handler(int signal)
 {
   gSignalStatus = signal;
 }

 int main()
 {
   // Install a signal handler
   std::signal(SIGINT, signal_handler);

   std::cout << "SignalValue: " << gSignalStatus << '\\n';
   std::cout << "Sending signal: " << SIGINT << '\\n';
   std::raise(SIGINT);
   std::cout << "SignalValue: " << gSignalStatus << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 SignalValue: 0
 Sending signal: 2
 SignalValue: 2

.SH See also

   raise               runs the signal handler for particular signal
                       \fI(function)\fP
   atomic_signal_fence fence between a thread and a signal handler executed in the same
   \fI(C++11)\fP             thread
                       \fI(function)\fP
