.TH std::variant<Types...>::variant 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::variant<Types...>::variant \- std::variant<Types...>::variant

.SH Synopsis
   constexpr variant() noexcept(/* see below */);                     \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   constexpr variant(const variant& other);                           \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   constexpr variant(variant&& other) noexcept(/* see below */);      \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   template< class T >                                                \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   constexpr variant(T&& t) noexcept(/* see below */);
   template< class T, class... Args >
   constexpr explicit variant(std::in_place_type_t<T>, Args&&...      \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   args);
   template< class T, class U, class... Args >

   constexpr explicit variant(std::in_place_type_t<T>,                \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP

   std::initializer_list<U> il, Args&&... args);
   template< std::size_t I, class... Args >
   constexpr explicit variant(std::in_place_index_t<I>, Args&&...     \fB(7)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   args);
   template< std::size_t I, class U, class... Args >

   constexpr explicit variant(std::in_place_index_t<I>,               \fB(8)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP

   std::initializer_list<U> il, Args&&... args);

   Constructs a new variant object.

   1) Default constructor. Constructs a variant holding the value-initialized value of
   the first alternative (index() is zero). This constructor is constexpr if and only
   if the value initialization of the alternative type T_0 would satisfy the
   requirements for a constexpr function. This overload only participates in overload
   resolution if std::is_default_constructible_v<T_0> is true.
   2) Copy constructor. If other is not valueless_by_exception, constructs a variant
   holding the same alternative as other and direct-initializes the contained value
   with std::get<other.index()>(other). Otherwise, initializes a valueless_by_exception
   variant. This constructor is defined as deleted unless
   std::is_copy_constructible_v<T_i> is true for all T_i in Types.... It is trivial if
   std::is_trivially_copy_constructible_v<T_i> is true for all T_i in Types....
   3) Move constructor. If other is not valueless_by_exception, constructs a variant
   holding the same alternative as other and direct-initializes the contained value
   with std::get<other.index()>(std::move(other)). Otherwise, initializes a
   valueless_by_exception variant. This overload only participates in overload
   resolution if std::is_move_constructible_v<T_i> is true for all T_i in Types.... It
   is trivial if std::is_trivially_move_constructible_v<T_i> is true for all T_i in
   Types....
   4) Converting constructor. Constructs a variant holding the alternative type T_j
   that would be selected by overload resolution for the expression
   F(std::forward<T>(t)) if there was an overload of imaginary function F(T_i) for
   every T_i from Types... in scope at the same time, except that:

     * An overload F(T_i) is only considered if the declaration T_i x[] = {
       std::forward<T>(t) }; is valid for some invented variable x;
     * If T_i is (possibly cv-qualified) bool, F(T_i) is only considered if
       std:remove_cvref_t<T> is also bool.

   Direct-initializes the contained value as if by direct non-list-initialization from
   std::forward<T>(t). This overload only participates in overload resolution if
   sizeof...(Types) > 0,
   std::decay_t<U>
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::remove_cvref_t<U>
   \fI(since C++20)\fP is neither the same type as variant, nor a specialization of
   std::in_place_type_t, nor a specialization of std::in_place_index_t,
   std::is_constructible_v<T_j, T> is true, and the expression F(std::forward<T>(t))
   (with F being the above-mentioned set of imaginary functions) is well formed. This
   constructor is a constexpr constructor if T_j's selected constructor is a constexpr
   constructor.

 std::variant<std::string> v("abc"); // OK
 std::variant<std::string, std::string> w("abc"); // ill-formed
 std::variant<std::string, const char*> x("abc"); // OK, chooses const char*
 std::variant<std::string, bool> y("abc"); // OK, chooses string; bool is not a candidate
 std::variant<float, long, double> z = 0; // OK, holds long
                                          // float and double are not candidates

   5) Constructs a variant with the specified alternative T and initializes the
   contained value with the arguments std::forward<Args>(args).... If T's selected
   constructor is a constexpr constructor, this constructor is also a constexpr
   constructor. This overload only participates in overload resolution if there is
   exactly one occurrence of T in Types... and std::is_constructible_v<T, Args...> is
   true.
   6) Constructs a variant with the specified alternative T and initializes the
   contained value with the arguments il, std::forward<Args>(args)..... If T's selected
   constructor is a constexpr constructor, this constructor is also a constexpr
   constructor. This overload only participates in overload resolution if there is
   exactly one occurrence of T in Types... and std::is_constructible_v<T,
   initializer_list<U>&, Args...> is true.
   7) Constructs a variant with the alternative T_i specified by the index I and
   initializes the contained value with the arguments std::forward<Args>(args).... If
   T_i's selected constructor is a constexpr constructor, this constructor is also a
   constexpr constructor. This overload only participates in overload resolution if I <
   sizeof...(Types) and std::is_constructible_v<T_i, Args...> is true.
   8) Constructs a variant with the alternative T_i specified by the index I and
   initializes the contained value with the arguments il, std::forward<Args>(args)....
   If T_i's selected constructor is a constexpr constructor, this constructor is also a
   constexpr constructor. This overload only participates in overload resolution if I <
   sizeof...(Types) and std::is_constructible_v<T_i, std::initializer_list<U>&,
   Args...> is true.

.SH Parameters

   other   - another variant object whose contained value to copy/move
   t       - value to initialize the contained value with
   args... - arguments to initialize the contained value with
   il      - initializer list to initialize the contained value with

.SH Exceptions

   1) May throw any exception thrown by the value initialization of the first
   alternative.
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(std::is_nothrow_default_constructible_v<T_0>)
   2) May throw any exception thrown by direct-initializing any T_i in Types...
   3) May throw any exception thrown by move-constructing any T_i in Types....
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept( (std::is_nothrow_move_constructible_v<Types> && ...))
   4) May throw any exception thrown by the initialization of the selected alternative
   T_j.
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<T_j, T>)
   5-8) May throw any exception thrown by calling the selected constructor of the
   selected alternative

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to         Behavior as published              Correct behavior
                       allocator-aware constructors provided
   LWG 2901 C++17      but variant can't properly support    constructors removed
                       allocators
                       converting constructor template
   P0739R0  C++17      interacts poorly with class template  constraint added
                       argument deduction
                       copy constructor doesn't participate
   LWG 3024 C++17      in overload resolution if any member  defined as deleted instead
                       type is not copyable
                       copy/move constructors may not be     required to propagate
   P0602R4  C++17      trivial even if underlying            triviality
                       constructors are trivial
                       converting constructor blindly        narrowing and boolean
   P0608R3  C++17      assembles an overload set, leading to conversions not considered
                       unintended conversions

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example
