.TH std::modf,std::modff,std::modfl 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::modf,std::modff,std::modfl \- std::modf,std::modff,std::modfl

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float       modf ( float num, float* iptr );

   double      modf ( double num, double* iptr );               (until C++23)

   long double modf ( long double num, long double*
   iptr );
   constexpr /* floating-point-type */

               modf ( /* floating-point-type */ num,            (since C++23)
                                                        \fB(1)\fP
                      /* floating-point-type */* iptr
   );
   float       modff( float num, float* iptr );             \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                                (constexpr since C++23)
   long double modfl( long double num, long double*         \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iptr );                                                      (constexpr since C++23)
   Additional overloads \fI(since C++11)\fP
   Defined in header <cmath>
   template< class Integer >                                (A) (constexpr since C++23)
   double      modf ( Integer num, double* iptr );

   1-3) Decomposes given floating point value num into integral and fractional parts,
   each having the same type and sign as num. The integral part (in floating-point
   format) is stored in the object pointed to by iptr.
   The library provides overloads of std::modf for all cv-unqualified floating-point
   types as the type of the parameter num and the pointed-to type of iptr.
   (since C++23)

   A) Additional overloads are provided for all integer types, which are  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   treated as double.

.SH Parameters

   num  - floating-point or integer value
   iptr - pointer to floating-point value to store the integral part to

.SH Return value

   If no errors occur, returns the fractional part of num with the same sign as num.
   The integral part is put into the value pointed to by iptr.

   The sum of the returned value and the value stored in *iptr gives num (allowing for
   rounding).

.SH Error handling

   This function is not subject to any errors specified in math_errhandling.

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * If num is ±0, ±0 is returned, and ±0 is stored in *iptr.
     * If num is ±∞, ±0 is returned, and ±∞ is stored in *iptr.
     * If num is NaN, NaN is returned, and NaN is stored in *iptr.
     * The returned value is exact, the current rounding mode is ignored.

.SH Notes

   This function behaves as if implemented as follows:

 double modf(double num, double* iptr)
 {
 #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS ON
     int save_round = std::fegetround();
     std::fesetround(FE_TOWARDZERO);
     *iptr = std::nearbyint(num);
     std::fesetround(save_round);
     return std::copysign(std::isinf(num) ? 0.0 : num - (*iptr), num);
 }

   The additional overloads are not required to be provided exactly as (A). They only
   need to be sufficient to ensure that for their argument num of integer type,
   std::modf(num, iptr) has the same effect as std::modf(static_cast<double>(num),
   iptr).

.SH Example

   Compares different floating-point decomposition functions:


// Run this code

 #include <cmath>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <limits>

 int main()
 {
     double f = 123.45;
     std::cout << "Given the number " << f << " or " << std::hexfloat
               << f << std::defaultfloat << " in hex,\\n";

     double f3;
     double f2 = std::modf(f, &f3);
     std::cout << "modf() makes " << f3 << " + " << f2 << '\\n';

     int i;
     f2 = std::frexp(f, &i);
     std::cout << "frexp() makes " << f2 << " * 2^" << i << '\\n';

     i = std::ilogb(f);
     std::cout << "logb()/ilogb() make " << f / std::scalbn(1.0, i) << " * "
               << std::numeric_limits<double>::radix
               << "^" << std::ilogb(f) << '\\n';

     // special values
     f2 = std::modf(-0.0, &f3);
     std::cout << "modf(-0) makes " << f3 << " + " << f2 << '\\n';
     f2 = std::modf(-INFINITY, &f3);
     std::cout << "modf(-Inf) makes " << f3 << " + " << f2 << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Given the number 123.45 or 0x1.edccccccccccdp+6 in hex,
 modf() makes 123 + 0.45
 frexp() makes 0.964453 * 2^7
 logb()/ilogb() make 1.92891 * 2^6
 modf(-0) makes -0 + -0
 modf(-Inf) makes -INF + -0

.SH See also

   trunc
   truncf
   truncl  nearest integer not greater in magnitude than the given value
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   C documentation for
   modf
