.TH std::shared_ptr::use_count 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::shared_ptr::use_count \- std::shared_ptr::use_count

.SH Synopsis
   long use_count() const noexcept;

   Returns the number of different shared_ptr instances (this included) managing the
   current object. If there is no managed object, 0 is returned.

   In multithreaded environment, the value returned by use_count is approximate
   (typical implementations use a memory_order_relaxed load)

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   the number of std::shared_ptr instances managing the current object or 0 if
   there is no managed object.

.SH Notes

   Common use cases include

     * comparison with 0. If use_count returns zero, the shared pointer is empty
       and manages no objects (whether or not its stored pointer is nullptr). In
       multithreaded environment, this does not imply that the destructor of the
       managed object has completed.
     * comparison with 1. If use_count returns 1, there are no other owners.
       The
       deprecated
       \fI(since C++17)\fP member function unique() is provided for this use case.
       \fI(until C++20)\fP In multithreaded environment, this does not imply that the object
       is safe to modify because accesses to the managed object by former shared owners
       may not have completed, and because new shared owners may be introduced
       concurrently, such as by std::weak_ptr::lock.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <memory>
 #include <iostream>

 void fun(std::shared_ptr<int> sp)
 {
     std::cout << "in fun(): sp.use_count() == " << sp.use_count()
               << " (object @ " << sp << ")\\n";
 }

 int main()
 {
     auto sp1 = std::make_shared<int>(5);
     std::cout << "in main(): sp1.use_count() == " << sp1.use_count()
               << " (object @ " << sp1 << ")\\n";

     fun(sp1);
 }

.SH Possible output:

 in main(): sp1.use_count() == 1 (object @ 0x20eec30)
 in fun(): sp.use_count() == 2 (object @ 0x20eec30)

.SH See also

   unique        checks whether the managed object is managed only by the current
   \fI(until C++20)\fP shared_ptr instance
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
