.TH std::optional::operator= 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::optional::operator= \- std::optional::operator=

.SH Synopsis
                                                        (since
   optional& operator=( std::nullopt_t )                C++17)
   noexcept;                                            (until
                                                        C++20)
   constexpr optional& operator=(                       (since
   std::nullopt_t ) noexcept;                           C++20)
   constexpr optional& operator=( const             \fB(2)\fP (since
   optional& other );                                   C++17)
   constexpr optional& operator=( optional&&        \fB(3)\fP (since
   other ) noexcept(/* see below */);                   C++17)
                                                                (since
   template< class U = T >                                      C++17)
   optional& operator=( U&& value );                            (until
                                                                C++20)
   template< class U = T >                      \fB(1)\fP             (since
   constexpr optional& operator=( U&& value );                  C++20)
   template< class U >                                                  (since
   optional& operator=( const optional<U>&                              C++17)
   other );                                                             (until
                                                    \fB(4)\fP                 C++20)
   template< class U >                                                  (since
   constexpr optional& operator=( const                                 C++20)
   optional<U>& other );                                \fB(5)\fP
                                                                                (since
   template< class U >                                                          C++17)
   optional& operator=( optional<U>&& other );                                  (until
                                                                \fB(6)\fP             C++20)
   template< class U >                                                          (since
   constexpr optional& operator=( optional<U>&&                                 C++20)
   other );

   Replaces contents of *this with the contents of other

   1) If *this contains a value before the call, the contained value is destroyed by
   calling its destructor as if by value().T::~T(). *this does not contain a value
   after this call.
   2-3) Assigns the state of other.

     * If both *this and other do not contain a value, the function has no effect.
     * If *this contains a value, but other does not, then the contained value is
       destroyed by calling its destructor. *this does not contain a value after the
       call.
     * If other contains a value, then depending on whether *this contains a value, the
       contained value is either direct-initialized or assigned from *other \fB(2)\fP or
       std::move(*other) \fB(3)\fP. Note that a moved-from optional still contains a value.
     * Overload \fB(2)\fP is defined as deleted unless std::is_copy_constructible_v<T> and
       std::is_copy_assignable_v<T> are both true. It is trivial if
       std::is_trivially_copy_constructible_v<T>,
       std::is_trivially_copy_assignable_v<T> and std::is_trivially_destructible_v<T>
       are all true.
     * Overload \fB(3)\fP does not participate in overload resolution unless
       std::is_move_constructible_v<T> and std::is_move_assignable_v<T> are both true.
       It is trivial if std::is_trivially_move_constructible_v<T>,
       std::is_trivially_move_assignable_v<T> and std::is_trivially_destructible_v<T>
       are all true.

   4) Perfect-forwarded assignment: depending on whether *this contains a value before
   the call, the contained value is either direct-initialized from
   std::forward<U>(value) or assigned from std::forward<U>(value). The function does
   not participate in overload resolution unless
   std::decay_t<U>
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::remove_cvref_t<U>
   \fI(since C++20)\fP is not std::optional<T>, std::is_constructible_v<T, U> is true,
   std::is_assignable_v<T&, U> is true, and at least one of the following is true:

     * T is not a scalar type;
     * std::decay_t<U> is not T.

   5-6) Assigns the state of other.

     * If both *this and other do not contain a value, the function has no effect.
     * If *this contains a value, but other does not, then the contained value is
       destroyed by calling its destructor. *this does not contain a value after the
       call.
     * If other contains a value, then depending on whether *this contains a value, the
       contained value is either direct-initialized or assigned from *other \fB(5)\fP or
       std::move(*other) \fB(6)\fP. Note that a moved-from optional still contains a value.
     * These overloads do not participate in overload resolution unless the following
       conditions are met:

          * T is not constructible, convertible, or assignable from any expression of
            type (possibly const) std::optional<U>, i.e., the following 12 type traits
            are all false:

               * std::is_constructible_v<T, std::optional<U>&>
               * std::is_constructible_v<T, const std::optional<U>&>
               * std::is_constructible_v<T, std::optional<U>&&>
               * std::is_constructible_v<T, const std::optional<U>&&>
               * std::is_convertible_v<std::optional<U>&, T>
               * std::is_convertible_v<const std::optional<U>&, T>
               * std::is_convertible_v<std::optional<U>&&, T>
               * std::is_convertible_v<const std::optional<U>&&, T>
               * std::is_assignable_v<T&, std::optional<U>&>
               * std::is_assignable_v<T&, const std::optional<U>&>
               * std::is_assignable_v<T&, std::optional<U>&&>
               * std::is_assignable_v<T&, const std::optional<U>&&>.

          * For overload \fB(5)\fP, std::is_constructible_v<T, const U&> and
            std::is_assignable_v<T&, const U&> are both true.
          * For overload \fB(6)\fP, std::is_constructible_v<T, U> and
            std::is_assignable_v<T&, U> are both true.

.SH Parameters

   other - another optional object whose contained value to assign
   value - value to assign to the contained value

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Exceptions

   2-6) Throws any exception thrown by the constructor or assignment operator of T. If
   an exception is thrown, the initialization state of *this (and of other in case of
   (2-3) and (5-6) ) is unchanged, i.e. if the object contained a value, it still
   contains a value, and the other way round. The contents of value and the contained
   values of *this and other depend on the exception safety guarantees of the operation
   from which the exception originates (copy-constructor, move-assignment, etc.).
   \fB(3)\fP has following
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(std::is_nothrow_move_assignable_v<T> &&
   std::is_nothrow_move_constructible_v<T>)

.SH Notes

   An optional object op may be turned into an empty optional with both op = {}; and op
   = nullopt;. The first expression constructs an empty optional object with {} and
   assigns it to op.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <optional>
 #include <iostream>
 int main()
 {
     std::optional<const char*> s1 = "abc", s2; // constructor
     s2 = s1; // assignment
     s1 = "def"; // decaying assignment (U = char[4], T = const char*)
     std::cout << *s2 << ' ' << *s1 << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 abc def

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

     DR    Applied to            Behavior as published              Correct behavior
                      copy/move assignment operator may not be    required to propagate
   P0602R4 C++17      trivial                                     triviality
                      even if underlying operations are trivial
                      converting assignment operators were not
   P2231R1 C++20      constexpr                                   made constexpr
                      while the required operations can be in
                      C++20

.SH See also

   emplace constructs the contained value in-place
           \fI(public member function)\fP
