.TH std::cos(std::valarray) 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::cos(std::valarray) \- std::cos(std::valarray)

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <valarray>
   template< class T >
   valarray<T> cos( const valarray<T>& va );

   For each element in va computes cosine of the value of the element.

.SH Parameters

   va - value array to apply the operation to

.SH Return value

   Value array containing cosines of the values in va.

.SH Notes

   Unqualified function (cos) is used to perform the computation. If such function is
   not available, std::cos is used due to argument-dependent lookup.

   The function can be implemented with the return type different from std::valarray.
   In this case, the replacement type has the following properties:

              * All const member functions of std::valarray are provided.
              * std::valarray, std::slice_array, std::gslice_array, std::mask_array and
                std::indirect_array can be constructed from the replacement type.
              * All functions accepting an argument of type const std::valarray&
                except begin() and end()
                \fI(since C++11)\fP should also accept the replacement type.
              * All functions accepting two arguments of type const std::valarray&
                should accept every combination of const std::valarray& and the
                replacement type.
              * The return type does not add more than two levels of template nesting
                over the most deeply-nested argument type.

.SH Possible implementation

   template<class T>
   valarray<T> cos(const valarray<T>& va)
   {
       valarray<T> other = va;
       for (T &i : other) {
           i = cos(i);
       }
       return other;
   }

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cmath>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <valarray>

 void show(const char* title, const std::valarray<float>& data)
 {
     const int w { 9 };
     std::cout << std::setw(w) << title << " | ";
     for (float x : data)
         std::cout << std::setw(w) << x << " | ";
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     const std::valarray<float> x { .1, .2, .3, .4 };
     const auto sin = std::sin(x);
     const auto cos = std::cos(x);
     const auto z = (sin * sin) + (cos * cos);

     show("x"     , x  );
     show("sin(x)", sin);
     show("cos(x)", cos);
     show("z"     , z  );
 }

.SH Output:

         x |       0.1 |       0.2 |       0.3 |       0.4 |
    sin(x) | 0.0998334 |  0.198669 |   0.29552 |  0.389418 |
    cos(x) |  0.995004 |  0.980067 |  0.955337 |  0.921061 |
         z |         1 |         1 |         1 |         1 |

.SH See also

   sin(std::valarray)  applies the function std::sin to each element of valarray
                       \fI(function template)\fP
   tan(std::valarray)  applies the function std::tan to each element of valarray
                       \fI(function template)\fP
   acos(std::valarray) applies the function std::acos to each element of valarray
                       \fI(function template)\fP
   cos
   cosf                computes cosine (\\({\\small\\cos{x} }\\)cos(x))
   cosl                \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   cos(std::complex)   computes cosine of a complex number (\\({\\small\\cos{z} }\\)cos(z))
                       \fI(function template)\fP
