.TH std::filesystem::path::path 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::filesystem::path::path \- std::filesystem::path::path

.SH Synopsis
   path() noexcept;                                                   \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   path( const path& p );                                             \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   path( path&& p ) noexcept;                                         \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   path( string_type&& source, format fmt = auto_format );            \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   template< class Source >                                           \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   path( const Source& source, format fmt = auto_format );
   template< class InputIt >                                          \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   path( InputIt first, InputIt last, format fmt = auto_format );
   template< class Source >
   path( const Source& source, const std::locale& loc, format fmt =   \fB(7)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   auto_format );
   template< class InputIt >
   path( InputIt first, InputIt last, const std::locale& loc, format  \fB(8)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   fmt = auto_format );

   Constructs a new path object.

   1) Constructs an empty path.
   2) Copy constructor. Constructs a path whose pathname, in both native and generic
   formats, is the same as that of p
   3) Move constructor. Constructs a path whose pathname, in both native and generic
   formats, is the same as that of p, p is left in valid but unspecified state.
   4-6) Constructs the path from a character sequence (format interpreted as specified
   by fmt) provided by source (4,5), which is a pointer or an input iterator to a
   null-terminated character/wide character sequence, an std::basic_string or an
   std::basic_string_view, or represented as a pair of input iterators [first, last)
   \fB(6)\fP. Any of the character types char,
   char8_t,
   \fI(since C++20)\fPchar16_t, char32_t, wchar_t is allowed, and the method of conversion to
   the native character set depends on the character type used by source

     * If the source character type is char, the encoding of the source is assumed to
       be the native narrow encoding (so no conversion takes place on POSIX systems)

     * If the source character type is char8_t, conversion from UTF-8 to  \fI(since C++20)\fP
       native filesystem encoding is used.

     * If the source character type is char16_t, conversion from UTF-16 to native
       filesystem encoding is used.
     * If the source character type is char32_t, conversion from UTF-32 to native
       filesystem encoding is used.
     * If the source character type is wchar_t, the input is assumed to be the native
       wide encoding (so no conversion takes places on Windows)

   7-8) Constructs the path from a character sequence (format interpreted as specified
   by fmt) provided by source \fB(6)\fP, which is a pointer or an input iterator to a
   null-terminated character sequence, an std::string, an std::basic_string_view, or
   represented as a pair of input iterators [first, last) (\fB(7)\fP). The only character
   type allowed is char. Uses loc to perform the character encoding conversion. If
   value_type is wchar_t, converts from to wide using the std::codecvt<wchar_t, char,
   std::mbstate_t> facet of loc. Otherwise, first converts to wide using the
   std::codecvt<wchar_t, char, std::mbstate_t> facet and then converts to filesystem
   native character type using std::codecvt<wchar_t,value_type> facet of loc.

.SH Parameters

   p           - a path to copy
                 std::basic_string, std::basic_string_view, pointer to a
   source      - null-terminated character string, or input iterator with a character
                 value type that points to a null-terminated character sequence (the
                 character type must be char for overload \fB(6)\fP)
   first, last - pair of LegacyInputIterators that specify a character sequence
   fmt         - enumerator of type path::format which specifies how pathname format is
                 to be interpreted
   loc         - locale that defines encoding conversion to use
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of LegacyInputIterator.
   -
   The value type of InputIt must be one of the character types char, wchar_t,
   char8_t,
   \fI(since C++20)\fPchar16_t and char32_t to use the overload \fB(5)\fP)
   -
   The value type of InputIt must be char to use the overload \fB(7)\fP)

.SH Exceptions

   2, 4-8) \fI(none)\fP

.SH Notes

   For portable pathname generation from Unicode strings, see u8path.     \fI(until C++20)\fP
   path constructor supports creation from UTF-8 string when the source   \fI(since C++20)\fP
   is a sequence of char8_t.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <filesystem>
 namespace fs = std::filesystem;
 int main()
 {
     fs::path p1 = "/usr/lib/sendmail.cf"; // portable format
     fs::path p2 = "C:\\\\users\\\\abcdef\\\\AppData\\\\Local\\\\Temp\\\\"; // native format
     fs::path p3 = L"D:/猫.txt"; // wide string
  
     std::cout << "p1 = " << p1 << '\\n'
               << "p2 = " << p2 << '\\n'
               << "p3 = " << p3 << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 p1 = "/usr/lib/sendmail.cf"
 p2 = "C:\\users\\abcdef\\AppData\\Local\\Temp\\"
 p3 = "D:/猫.txt"

.SH See also

   u8path                creates a path from a UTF-8 encoded source
   \fI(C++17)\fP               \fI(function)\fP 
   (deprecated in C++20)
