.TH std::atomic::operator+=,-=,&=,|=,^= 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::atomic::operator+=,-=,&=,|=,^= \- std::atomic::operator+=,-=,&=,|=,^=

.SH Synopsis
T operator+=(
T arg );
T operator+=(
T arg )
volatile;
T* operator+=(
std::ptrdiff_t
arg );
T* operator+=(
std::ptrdiff_t
arg )
volatile;
T operator-=(
T arg );
T operator-=(
T arg )
volatile;
T* operator-=(     \fI(since C++11)\fP
std::ptrdiff_t     (member only of
arg );         \fB(1)\fP atomic<Integral>     \fI(since C++11)\fP
T* operator-=(     template             (member only of
std::ptrdiff_t     specialization)  \fB(1)\fP atomic<T*>
arg )                                   template
volatile;                               specialization)     \fI(since C++11)\fP
T operator&=(                                               (member only of
T arg );                                                \fB(2)\fP atomic<Integral>     \fI(since C++11)\fP
T operator&=(                                               template             (member only of
T arg )                                                     specialization)  \fB(2)\fP atomic<T*>
volatile;                                                                        template
T operator|=(                                                                    specialization)     \fI(since C++11)\fP
T arg );                                                                                             (member only of
T operator|=(                                                                                    \fB(3)\fP atomic<Integral>     \fI(since C++11)\fP
T arg )                                                                                              template             (member only of
volatile;                                                                                            specialization)  \fB(4)\fP atomic<Integral>
T operator^=(                                                                                                             template             \fI(since C++11)\fP
T arg );                                                                                                                  specialization)      (member only of
T operator^=(                                                                                                                              \fB(5)\fP atomic<Integral>
T arg )                                                                                                                                        template
volatile;                                                                                                                                      specialization)

   Atomically replaces the current value with the result of computation involving the
   previous value and arg. The operation is read-modify-write operation.

   1) Performs atomic addition. Equivalent to fetch_add(arg) + arg.
   2) Performs atomic subtraction. Equivalent to fetch_sub(arg) - arg.
   3) Performs atomic bitwise and. Equivalent to fetch_and(arg) & arg.
   4) Performs atomic bitwise or. Equivalent to fetch_or(arg) | arg.
   5) Performs atomic bitwise exclusive or. Equivalent to fetch_xor(arg) ^ arg.

   For signed Integral types, arithmetic is defined to use two’s complement
   representation. There are no undefined results. For T* types, the result may be an
   undefined address, but the operations otherwise have no undefined behavior.

.SH Parameters

   arg - the argument for the arithmetic operation

.SH Return value

   The resulting value (that is, the result of applying the corresponding binary
   operator to the value immediately preceding the effects of the corresponding member
   function in the modification order of *this)

.SH Exceptions

   noexcept specification:
   noexcept

.SH Notes

   Unlike most compound assignment operators, the compound assignment operators for
   atomic types do not return a reference to their left-hand arguments. They return a
   copy of the stored value instead.

.SH See also

   operator++
   operator++(int) increments or decrements the atomic value by one
   operator--      \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator--(int)

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept

   Hidden categories:

     * Pages with unreviewed unconditional noexcept template
     * Pages with unreviewed noexcept template
