.TH std::basic_string::find_first_of 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_string::find_first_of \- std::basic_string::find_first_of

.SH Synopsis
   size_type find_first_of( const basic_string&             \fI(until C++11)\fP
   str, size_type pos = 0 ) const;
   size_type find_first_of( const basic_string&             \fI(since C++11)\fP
   str, size_type pos = 0 ) const noexcept;
   size_type find_first_of( const CharT* s,             \fB(2)\fP
   size_type pos, size_type count ) const;
   size_type find_first_of( const CharT* s,             \fB(3)\fP
   size_type pos = 0 ) const;                       \fB(1)\fP
   size_type find_first_of( CharT ch, size_type pos                       \fI(until C++11)\fP
   = 0 ) const;
   size_type find_first_of( CharT ch, size_type pos                       \fI(since C++11)\fP
   = 0 ) const noexcept;                                \fB(4)\fP
   template < class T >
   size_type find_first_of( const T& t, size_type           \fB(5)\fP           \fI(since C++17)\fP
   pos = 0 ) const noexcept(/* see below */);

   Finds the first character equal to one of the characters in the given character
   sequence. The search considers only the interval [pos, size()). If the character is
   not present in the interval, npos will be returned.

   1) Finds the first character equal to one of the characters in str.
   2) Finds the first character equal to one of the characters in the range [s,
   s+count). This range can include null characters.
   3) Finds the first character equal to one of the characters in character string
   pointed to by s. The length of the string is determined by the first null character
   using Traits::length(s).
   4) Finds the first character equal to ch.
   5) Implicitly converts t to a string view sv as if by std::basic_string_view<CharT,
   Traits> sv = t;, then finds the first character equal to one of the characters in
   sv. This overload only participates in overload resolution if
   std::is_convertible_v<const T&, std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>> is true and
   std::is_convertible_v<const T&, const CharT*> is false.

.SH Parameters

   str   - string identifying characters to search for
   pos   - position at which to begin searching
   count - length of character string identifying characters to search for
   s     - pointer to a character string identifying characters to search for
   ch    - character to search for
   t     - object (convertible to std::basic_string_view) identifying characters to
           search for

.SH Return value

   Position of the found character or npos if no such character is found.

.SH Exceptions

   5)
   noexcept specification:  
   noexcept(std::is_nothrow_convertible_v<const T&, std::basic_string_view<CharT,
   Traits>>)

.SH Notes

   Traits::eq() is used to perform the comparison.

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to           Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 2946 C++17      string_view overload causes ambiguity in  avoided by making it a
                       some cases                                template

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
  
 int main()
 {
     // the test string
     std::string str = std::string("Hello World!");
  
     // strings and chars to search for
     std::string search_str = std::string("o");
     const char* search_cstr = "Good Bye!";
  
     std::cout << str.find_first_of(search_str) << '\\n';
     std::cout << str.find_first_of(search_str, 5) << '\\n';
     std::cout << str.find_first_of(search_cstr) << '\\n';
     std::cout << str.find_first_of(search_cstr, 0, 4) << '\\n';
     // 'x' is not in "Hello World', thus it will return std::string::npos
     std::cout << str.find_first_of('x') << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 4
 7
 1
 4
 18446744073709551615

.SH See also

   find              find characters in the string
                     \fI(public member function)\fP 
   rfind             find the last occurrence of a substring
                     \fI(public member function)\fP 
   find_first_not_of find first absence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP 
   find_last_of      find last occurrence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP 
   find_last_not_of  find last absence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP 
                     returns the length of the maximum initial segment that consists
   strspn            of only the characters found in another byte string
                     \fI(function)\fP 

.SH Category:

     * conditionally noexcept
