.TH std::basic_istream::putback 3 "Sep  4 2015" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   basic_istream& putback( char_type ch );

   Puts the character ch back to the input stream so the next extracted character will
   be ch.

   First clears eofbit, then behaves as UnformattedInputFunction. After constructing
   and checking the sentry object, if rdbuf() is not null, calls
   rdbuf()->sputbackc(ch), which calls rdbuf()->pbackfail(ch) if ch does not equal the
   most recently extracted character.

   If rdbuf() is null or if rdbuf->sputbackc(ch) returns Traits::eof(), calls
   setstate(badbit).

   In any case, sets the gcount() counter to zero.

.SH Parameters

   ch - character to put into input stream

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Exceptions

   failure if an error occurred (the error state flag is not goodbit) and exceptions()
   is set to throw for that state.

   If an internal operation throws an exception, it is caught and badbit is set. If
   exceptions() is set for badbit, the exception is rethrown.

.SH Example

   demonstrates the difference between modifying and non-modifying putback()

   
// Run this code

 #include <sstream>
 #include <iostream>

 int main()
 {
     std::stringstream s1("Hello, world"); // IO stream
     s1.get();
     if (s1.putback('Y')) // modifies the buffer
         std::cout << s1.rdbuf() << '\\n';
     else
         std::cout << "putback failed\\n";

     std::istringstream s2("Hello, world"); // input-only stream
     s2.get();
     if (s2.putback('Y')) // cannot modify input-only buffer
         std::cout << s2.rdbuf() << '\\n';
     else
         std::cout << "putback failed\\n";

     s2.clear();
     if (s2.putback('H')) // non-modifying putback
         std::cout << s2.rdbuf() << '\\n';
     else
         std::cout << "putback failed\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 Yello, world
 putback failed
 Hello, world

.SH See also

   sputbackc puts one character back in the input sequence
             \fI(public member function of std::basic_streambuf)\fP
   unget     unextracts a character
             \fI(public member function)\fP
   peek      reads the next character without extracting it
             \fI(public member function)\fP
