.TH std::is_copy_constructible,std::is_trivially_copy_constructible, 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::is_copy_constructible,std::is_trivially_copy_constructible, \- std::is_copy_constructible,std::is_trivially_copy_constructible,

.SH Synopsis

   Defined in header <type_traits>
   template< class T >                     \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   struct is_copy_constructible;
   template< class T >                     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   struct is_trivially_copy_constructible;
   template< class T >                     \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   struct is_nothrow_copy_constructible;

   1) If T is not a referenceable type (i.e., possibly cv-qualified void or a function
   type with a cv-qualifier-seq or a ref-qualifier), provides a member constant value
   equal to false. Otherwise, provides a member constant value equal to
   std::is_constructible<T, const T&>::value.
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but uses std::is_trivially_constructible<T, const T&>.
   3) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but uses std::is_nothrow_constructible<T, const T&>.

   T shall be a complete type, (possibly cv-qualified) void, or an array of unknown
   bound. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

   If an instantiation of a template above depends, directly or indirectly, on an
   incomplete type, and that instantiation could yield a different result if that type
   were hypothetically completed, the behavior is undefined.

   The behavior of a program that adds specializations for any of the templates
   described on this page is undefined.

  Helper variable templates

   template< class T >
   inline constexpr bool is_copy_constructible_v =                        \fI(since C++17)\fP
   is_copy_constructible<T>::value;
   template< class T >
   inline constexpr bool is_trivially_copy_constructible_v =              \fI(since C++17)\fP
   is_trivially_copy_constructible<T>::value;
   template< class T >
   inline constexpr bool is_nothrow_copy_constructible_v =                \fI(since C++17)\fP
   is_nothrow_copy_constructible<T>::value;

Inherited from std::integral_constant

.SH Member constants

   value    true if T is copy-constructible , false otherwise
   \fB[static]\fP \fI(public static member constant)\fP

.SH Member functions

   operator bool converts the object to bool, returns value
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator()    returns value
   \fI(C++14)\fP       \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Member types

   Type       Definition
   value_type bool
   type       std::integral_constant<bool, value>

.SH Possible implementation

   template<class T>
   struct is_copy_constructible :
       std::is_constructible<T, typename std::add_lvalue_reference<
           typename std::add_const<T>::type>::type> {};

   template<class T>
   struct is_trivially_copy_constructible :
       std::is_trivially_constructible<T, typename std::add_lvalue_reference<
           typename std::add_const<T>::type>::type> {};

   template<class T>
   struct is_nothrow_copy_constructible :
       std::is_nothrow_constructible<T, typename std::add_lvalue_reference<
           typename std::add_const<T>::type>::type> {};

.SH Notes

   In many implementations, is_nothrow_copy_constructible also checks if the destructor
   throws because it is effectively noexcept(T(arg)). Same applies to
   is_trivially_copy_constructible, which, in these implementations, also requires that
   the destructor is trivial: GCC bug 51452, LWG issue 2116.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <type_traits>

 struct Ex1 {
     std::string str; // member has a non-trivial copy ctor
 };
 struct Ex2 {
     int n;
     Ex2(const Ex2&) = default; // trivial and non-throwing
 };

 int main() {
     std::cout << std::boolalpha << "Ex1 is copy-constructible? "
               << std::is_copy_constructible<Ex1>::value << '\\n'
               << "Ex1 is trivially copy-constructible? "
               << std::is_trivially_copy_constructible<Ex1>::value << '\\n'
               << "Ex2 is trivially copy-constructible? "
               << std::is_trivially_copy_constructible<Ex2>::value << '\\n'
               << "Ex2 is nothrow copy-constructible? "
               << std::is_nothrow_copy_constructible<Ex2>::value << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 Ex1 is copy-constructible? true
 Ex1 is trivially copy-constructible? false
 Ex2 is trivially copy-constructible? true
 Ex2 is nothrow copy-constructible? true

.SH See also

   is_constructible
   is_trivially_constructible         checks if a type has a constructor for specific
   is_nothrow_constructible           arguments
   \fI(C++11)\fP                            \fI(class template)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   is_default_constructible
   is_trivially_default_constructible
   is_nothrow_default_constructible   checks if a type has a default constructor
   \fI(C++11)\fP                            \fI(class template)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   is_move_constructible
   is_trivially_move_constructible    checks if a type can be constructed from an
   is_nothrow_move_constructible      rvalue reference
   \fI(C++11)\fP                            \fI(class template)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
