.TH std::c8rtomb 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::c8rtomb \- std::c8rtomb

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cuchar>
   std::size_t c8rtomb( char* s, char8_t c8, std::mbstate_t* ps );  \fI(since C++20)\fP

   Converts a single code point from UTF-8 to a narrow multibyte character
   representation.

   If s is not a null pointer and c8 is the last code unit in a valid UTF-8 encoding of
   a code point, the function determines the number of bytes necessary to store the
   multibyte character representation of that code point (including any shift
   sequences, and taking into account the current multibyte conversion state *ps), and
   stores the multibyte character representation in the character array whose first
   element is pointed to by s, updating *ps as necessary. At most MB_CUR_MAX bytes can
   be written by this function.

   If c8 is not the final UTF-8 code unit in a representation of a code point, the
   function does not write to the array pointed to by s, only *ps is updated.

   If s is a null pointer, the call is equivalent to std::c8rtomb(buf, u8'\\0', ps) for
   some internal buffer buf.

   If c8 is the null character u8'\\0', a null byte is stored, preceded by any shift
   sequence necessary to restore the initial shift state and the conversion state
   parameter *ps is updated to represent the initial shift state.

   The multibyte encoding used by this function is specified by the currently active C
   locale.

.SH Parameters

   s  - pointer to narrow character array where the multibyte character will be stored
   c8 - the UTF-8 code unit to convert
   ps - pointer to the conversion state object used when interpreting the multibyte
        string

.SH Return value

   The number of bytes stored in the array object (including any shift sequences). This
   may be zero when c8 is not the final code unit in the UTF-8 representation of a code
   point.

   If c8 is invalid (does not contribute to a sequence of char8_t corresponding to a
   valid multibyte character), the value of the macro EILSEQ is stored in errno,
   static_cast<std::size_t>(-1) is returned, and the conversion state is unspecified.

.SH Notes

   Calls to c8rtomb with a null pointer argument for s may introduce a data race with
   other calls to c8rtomb with a null pointer argument for s.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   mbrtoc8 converts a narrow multibyte character to UTF-8 encoding
   (C++20) \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   c8rtomb

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
