.TH std::basic_ostream::seekp 3 "Apr 19 2014" "1.0.0" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   basic_ostream& seekp( pos_type pos );                            \fB(1)\fP
   basic_ostream& seekp( off_type off, std::ios_base::seekdir dir); \fB(2)\fP

   Sets the output position indicator of the current associated streambuf object.

   Behaves as UnformattedOutputFunction (except without actually          \fI(since C++11)\fP
   performing output). After constructing and checking the sentry object,

   1) sets the output position indicator to absolute (relative to the beginning of the
   file) value pos by calling rdbuf()->pubseekpos(pos, std::ios_base::out). If the call
   returns (pos_type)-1, executes setstate(failbit).

   2) sets the output position indicator to offset off relative to dir by calling
   rdbuf()->pubseekoff(off, dir, std::ios_base::out). Does not report errors.

.SH Contents

     * 1 Parameters
     * 2 Return value
     * 3 Exceptions
     * 4 Example
     * 5 See also

.SH Parameters

   pos - absolute position to set the output position indicator to.
   off - relative position to set the output position indicator to.
         defines base position to apply the relative offset to. It can be one of the
         following constants:

   dir - Constant Explanation
         beg      the beginning of a stream
         end      the ending of a stream
         cur      the current position of stream position indicator

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Exceptions

   1) May throw std::ios_base::failure in case of failure, if exceptions() & failbit !=
   0.

   2) Does not throw unless rdbuf()->pubseekoff() throws

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <sstream>
 #include <iostream>

 int main()
 {
     std::ostringstream os("hello, world");
     os.seekp(7);
     os << 'W';
     os.seekp(0, std::ios_base::end);
     os << '!';
     os.seekp(0);
     os << 'H';
     std::cout << os.str() << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 Hello, World!

.SH See also

   tellp returns the output position indicator
         \fI(public member function)\fP
   tellg returns the input position indicator
         \fI(public member function of std::basic_istream)\fP
   seekg sets the input position indicator
         \fI(public member function of std::basic_istream)\fP
