.TH std::log(std::valarray) 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::log(std::valarray) \- std::log(std::valarray)

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <valarray>
   template< class T >
   valarray<T> log( const valarray<T>& va );

   For each element in va computes natural logarithm of the value of the element.

.SH Parameters

   va - value array to apply the operation to

.SH Return value

   Value array containing natural logarithms of the values in va.

.SH Notes

   Unqualified function (log) is used to perform the computation. If such function is
   not available, std::log is used due to argument-dependent lookup.

   The function can be implemented with the return type different from std::valarray.
   In this case, the replacement type has the following properties:

              * All const member functions of std::valarray are provided.
              * std::valarray, std::slice_array, std::gslice_array, std::mask_array and
                std::indirect_array can be constructed from the replacement type.
              * All functions accepting an argument of type const std::valarray&
                except begin() and end()
                \fI(since C++11)\fP should also accept the replacement type.
              * All functions accepting two arguments of type const std::valarray&
                should accept every combination of const std::valarray& and the
                replacement type.
              * The return type does not add more than two levels of template nesting
                over the most deeply-nested argument type.

.SH Possible implementation

   template< class T >
   valarray<T> log( const valarray<T>& va )
   {
       valarray<T> other = va;
       for (T &i : other) {
           i = log(i);
       }
       return other; // proxy object may be returned
   }

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iomanip>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <valarray>

 void show(char const* title, const std::valarray<double>& va)
 {
     std::cout << title << " :" << std::right << std::fixed;
     for (double x : va) {
         std::cout << std::setw(10) << x;
     }
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     const std::valarray<double> n { 0.0, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 };
     const std::valarray<double> exp_n { std::exp(n) };
     const std::valarray<double> log_exp_n { std::log(exp_n) };

     show("n      ", n);
     show("eⁿ     ", exp_n);
     show("log(eⁿ)", log_exp_n);
 }

.SH Output:

 n       :  0.000000  1.000000  2.000000  3.000000
 eⁿ      :  1.000000  2.718282  7.389056 20.085537
 log(eⁿ) :  0.000000  1.000000  2.000000  3.000000

.SH See also

   log10(std::valarray) applies the function std::log10 to each element of valarray
                        \fI(function template)\fP
   exp(std::valarray)   applies the function std::exp to each element of valarray
                        \fI(function template)\fP
   log
   logf                 computes natural (base e) logarithm (\\({\\small \\ln{x} }\\)ln(x))
   logl                 \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
                        complex natural logarithm with the branch cuts along the
   log(std::complex)    negative real axis
                        \fI(function template)\fP
