.TH std::strstr 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::strstr \- std::strstr

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstring>
   const char* strstr( const char* haystack, const char* needle );
       char* strstr(       char* haystack, const char* needle );

   Finds the first occurrence of the byte string needle in the byte string pointed to
   by haystack. The terminating null characters are not compared.

.SH Parameters

   haystack - pointer to the null-terminated byte string to examine
   needle   - pointer to the null-terminated byte string to search for

.SH Return value

   Pointer to the first character of the found substring in haystack, or a null pointer
   if no such character is found. If needle points to an empty string, haystack is
   returned.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cstring>
 #include <iostream>

 int main()
 {
     const char* str = "Try not. Do, or do not. There is no try.";
     const char* target = "not";
     const char* result = str;

     while ((result = std::strstr(result, target)))
     {
         std::cout << "Found '" << target
                   << "' starting at '" << result << "'\\n";

         // Increment result, otherwise we'll find target at the same location
         ++result;
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 Found 'not' starting at 'not. Do, or do not. There is no try.'
 Found 'not' starting at 'not. There is no try.'

.SH See also

   find    finds the first occurrence of the given substring
           \fI(public member function of std::basic_string<CharT,Traits,Allocator>)\fP
   wcsstr  finds the first occurrence of a wide string within another wide string
           \fI(function)\fP
   strchr  finds the first occurrence of a character
           \fI(function)\fP
   strrchr finds the last occurrence of a character
           \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   strstr
