.TH std::ios_base::iostate 3 "Jun 28 2014" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   typedef /*implementation defined*/ iostate;
   static constexpr iostate goodbit = 0;
   static constexpr iostate badbit = /*implementation defined*/

   static constexpr iostate failbit = /*implementation defined*/

   static constexpr iostate eofbit = /*implementation defined*/

   Specifies stream state flags. It is a BitmaskType, the following constants are
   defined:

   Constant Explanation
   goodbit  no error
   badbit   irrecoverable stream error
   failbit  input/output operation failed (formatting or extraction error)
   eofbit   associated input sequence has reached end-of-file

.SH The eofbit

   The eofbit is set by the following standard library functions:

     * The string input function std::getline if it completes by reaching the end of
       the stream, as opposed to reaching the specified terminating character.
     * The numeric input overloads of basic_istream::operator>> if the end of the
       stream was encountered while reading the next character, on Stage 2 of
       num_get::get processing. Depending on the parsing state, failbit may or may not
       be set at the same time: for example, int n; istringstream buf("1"); buf >> n;
       sets eofbit, but not failbit: the integer 1 was successfully parsed and stored
       in n. On the other hand, bool b; istringstream buf("tr"); buf >> boolalpha >> b;
       sets both eofbit and failbit: there was not enough characters to complete the
       parsing of the boolean true.
     * The character extraction overloads of operator>>std::basic_istream, if the end
       of the stream is reached before the limit (if any) on the number of characters
       to be extracted.
     * The std::get_time I/O manipulator and any of the std::time_get parsing
       functions: time_get::get, time_get::get_time, time_get::get_date, etc., if the
       end of the stream is reached before the last character needed to parse the
       expected date/time value was processed.
     * The std::get_money I/O manipulator and money_get::get function, if the end of
       the stream is reached before the last character needed to parse the expected
       monetary value was processed.
     * The basic_istream::sentry constructor, executed at the beginning of every
       formatted input function: unless the skipws bit is unset (e.g. by issuing
       std::noskipws), sentry reads and discards the leading whitespace characters. If
       the end of the input stream is reached during this operation, both eofbit and
       failbit are set, and no input takes place.
     * The I/O manipulator std::ws, if it reaches the end of the stream while consuming
       whitespace (but, unlike the formatted input sentry, it does not set failbit in
       this case)
     * The unformatted input functions basic_istream::read, basic_istream::get,
       basic_istream::peek, and basic_istream::getline, when reaching the end of the
       stream.
     * The discard input function basic_istream::ignore, when reaching the end of the
       stream before reaching the specified delimiter character.
     * The immediate input function basic_istream::readsome, if
       basic_streambuf::in_avail returns -1

   The following functions clear eofbit as a side-effect:

     * basic_istream::putback
     * basic_istream::unget
     * basic_istream::seekg

.SH The failbit

   The failbit is set by the following standard library functions:

     * The basic_istream::sentry constructor, executed at the beginning of every input
       function, if either eofbit or badbit is already set on the stream, or if the end
       of stream is encountered while consuming leading whitespace.
     * The basic_ostream::sentry constructor, executed at the beginning of every output
       function, under implementation-defined conditions.
     * operator>>(std::basic_string<>) if the function extracts no characters from the
       input stream.
     * operator>>(std::complex<>) if the function fails to extract a valid complex
       number.
     * The character array and single character overloads of operator>> if they fail to
       extract any characters.
     * The streambuf overload of basic_istream::operator>> if the streambuf argument is
       a null pointer or if no characters were inserted into the streambuf.
     * The streambuf overload of basic_ostream::operator<< if the function inserts no
       characters.
     * operator>>(std::bitset<>) if the function extracts no characters from the input
       stream.
     * std::getline if the function extracts no characters or if it manages to extract
       basic_string::max_size characters from the input stream.
     * The numeric, pointer, and boolean input overloads of basic_istream::operator>>
       (technically, the overloads of num_get::get they call), if the input cannot be
       parsed as a valid value or if the value parsed does not fit in the destination
       type.
     * The time input manipulator std::get_time (technically, time_get::get it calls}},
       if the input cannot be unambiguously parsed as a time value according to the
       given format string.
     * The currency input manipulator std::get_money (technically, money_get::get it
       calls), if the input cannot be unambiguously parsed as a monetary value
       according to the locale rules.
     * The extraction operators of all RandomNumberEngines, if bad input is
       encountered.
     * The extraction operators of all RandomNumberDistributions, if bad input is
       encountered.
     * The unformatted input functions basic_istream::get if they fails to extract any
       characters.
     * basic_istream::getline, if it extracts no characters, if it fills in the
       provided buffer without encountering the delimiter, or if the provided buffer
       size is less than 1.
     * basic_istream::read, if the end-of-file condition occurs on the input stream
       before all requested characters could be extracted.
     * basic_istream::seekg on failure
     * basic_ostream::tellp on failure
     * The constructors of std::basic_fstream, std::basic_ifstream, and
       std::basic_ofstream that takes a filename argument, if the file cannot be
       opened.
     * basic_fstream::open, basic_ifstream::open, and basic_ofstream::open if the file
       cannot be opened.
     * basic_fstream::close, basic_ifstream::close, and basic_ofstream::close if the
       file cannot be closed.

.SH The badbit

   The badbit is set by the following standard library functions:

     * basic_ostream::put if it fails to insert a character into the output stream, for
       any reason.
     * basic_ostream::write if it fails to insert a character into the output stream,
       for any reason.
     * Formatted output functions operator<<, std::put_money, and std::put_time, if
       they encounter the end of the output stream before completing output.
     * basic_ios::init when called to initialize a stream with a null pointer for
       rdbuf()
     * basic_istream::putback and basic_istream::unget when called on a stream with a
       null rdbuf()
     * basic_istream::operator>>(basic_streambuf*) when a null pointer is passed as the
       argument.
     * basic_istream::putback and basic_istream::unget if

   rdbuf()->sputbackc() or rdbuf()->sungetc() return traits::eof().

     * basic_istream::sync, basic_ostream::flush, and every output function on a
       unitbuf output stream, if rdbuf()->pubsync() returns -1
     * Every stream I/O function if an exception is thrown by any member function of
       the associated stream buffer (e.g. sbumpc(), xsputn(), sgetc(), overflow(), etc)
     * ios_base::iword and ios_base::pword on failure (e.g. failure to allocate memory)

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   The following table shows the value of basic_ios accessors (good(), fail(), etc.)
   for all possible combinations of ios_base::iostate flags:

        ios_base::iostate flags basic_ios accessors
        eofbit  failbit  badbit good() fail() bad() eof() operator bool operator!
        false   false    false  true   false  false false true          false
        false   false    true   false  true   true  false false         true
        false   true     false  false  true   false false false         true
        false   true     true   false  true   true  false false         true
        true    false    false  false  false  false true  true          false
        true    false    true   false  true   true  true  false         true
        true    true     false  false  true   false true  false         true
        true    true     true   false  true   true  true  false         true

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
