.TH std::move 3 "2019.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::move \- std::move

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class InputIt, class OutputIt >                              \fI(since C++11)\fP
   OutputIt move( InputIt first, InputIt last, OutputIt d_first           \fI(until C++20)\fP
   );
   template< class InputIt, class OutputIt >
   constexpr OutputIt move( InputIt first, InputIt last, OutputIt \fB(1)\fP     \fI(since C++20)\fP
   d_first );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class ForwardIt1, class
   ForwardIt2 >                                                       \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   ForwardIt2 move( ExecutionPolicy&& policy, ForwardIt1 first,
   ForwardIt1 last, ForwardIt2 d_first );

   1) Moves the elements in the range [first, last), to another range beginning at
   d_first, starting from first and proceeding to last - 1. After this operation the
   elements in the moved-from range will still contain valid values of the appropriate
   type, but not necessarily the same values as before the move.
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but executed according to policy. This overload only participates in
   overload resolution if std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is
   true

.SH Parameters

   first, last - the range of elements to move
                 the beginning of the destination range. The behavior is undefined if
   d_first     - d_first is within the range [first, last). In this case,
                 std::move_backward may be used instead of std::move.
   policy      - the execution policy to use. See execution policy for details.
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of InputIterator.
   -
   OutputIt must meet the requirements of OutputIterator.
   -
   ForwardIt1, ForwardIt2 must meet the requirements of ForwardIterator.

.SH Return value

   Output iterator to the element past the last element moved (d_first + (last -
   first))

.SH Complexity

   Exactly last - first move assignments.

.SH Exceptions

   The overload with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy reports errors as
   follows:

     * If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception
       and ExecutionPolicy is one of the three standard policies, std::terminate is
       called. For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.
     * If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

.SH Possible implementation

   template<class InputIt, class OutputIt>
   OutputIt move(InputIt first, InputIt last, OutputIt d_first)
   {
       while (first != last) {
           *d_first++ = std::move(*first++);
       }
       return d_first;
   }

.SH Notes

   When moving overlapping ranges, std::move is appropriate when moving to the left
   (beginning of the destination range is outside the source range) while
   std::move_backward is appropriate when moving to the right (end of the destination
   range is outside the source range).

.SH Example

   The following code moves thread objects (which themselves are not copyable) from one
   container to another.

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <vector>
 #include <list>
 #include <iterator>
 #include <thread>
 #include <chrono>
  
 void f(int n)
 {
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(n));
     std::cout << "thread " << n << " ended" << '\\n';
 }
  
 int main()
 {
     std::vector<std::thread> v;
     v.emplace_back(f, 1);
     v.emplace_back(f, 2);
     v.emplace_back(f, 3);
     std::list<std::thread> l;
     // copy() would not compile, because std::thread is noncopyable
  
     std::move(v.begin(), v.end(), std::back_inserter(l));
     for (auto& t : l) t.join();
 }

.SH Output:

 thread 1 ended
 thread 2 ended
 thread 3 ended

.SH See also

   move_backward moves a range of elements to a new location in backwards order
   \fI(C++11)\fP       \fI(function template)\fP 
   move          obtains an rvalue reference
   \fI(C++11)\fP       \fI(function template)\fP 
