.TH std::ranges::sort 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::sort \- std::ranges::sort

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   Call signature
   template< std::random_access_iterator I, std::sentinel_for<I> S,

             class Comp = ranges::less, class Proj = std::identity >
   requires sortable<I, Comp, Proj>                                   \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   constexpr I sort( I first, S last, Comp comp = {}, Proj proj = {}
   );
   template< std::random_access_range R, class Comp = ranges::less,

             class Proj = std::identity >
   requires sortable<ranges::iterator_t<R>, Comp, Proj>               \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   constexpr ranges::iterator_t<R> sort( R&& r, Comp comp = {}, Proj
   proj = {} );

   Sorts the elements in the range [first, last) in non-descending order. The order of
   equivalent elements is not guaranteed to be preserved.

   A sequence is sorted with respect to a comparator comp if for any iterator it
   pointing to the sequence and any non-negative integer n such that it + n is a valid
   iterator pointing to an element of the sequence, std::invoke(comp, std::invoke(proj,
   *(it + n)), std::invoke(proj, *it)) evaluates to false.

   1) Elements are compared using the given binary comparison function comp.
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but uses r as the source range, as if using ranges::begin(r) as
   first and ranges::end(r) as last.

   The function-like entities described on this page are niebloids, that is:

     * Explicit template argument lists may not be specified when calling any of them.
     * None of them is visible to argument-dependent lookup.
     * When one of them is found by normal unqualified lookup for the name to the left
       of the function-call operator, it inhibits argument-dependent lookup.

   In practice, they may be implemented as function objects, or with special compiler
   extensions.

.SH Parameters

   first, last - iterator-sentinel defining the range to sort
   r           - the range to sort
   comp        - comparison to apply to the projected elements
   proj        - projection to apply to the elements

.SH Return value

   An iterator equal to last.

.SH Complexity

   O(N·log(N)) comparisons and projections, where N = ranges::distance(first, last).

.SH Possible implementation

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: Can we just use heap sort (make_heap and sort_heap) for short?

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <array>
 #include <functional>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <iostream>

 void print(auto const& seq) {
     for (auto const& elem : seq) {
         std::cout << elem << ' ';
     }
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

 struct Particle {
     std::string name; double mass; // MeV
     template<class Os> friend
     Os& operator<< (Os& os, Particle const& p) {
         return os << "\\n" << std::left
                   << std::setw(8) << p.name
                   << " : " << p.mass;
     }
 };

 int main()
 {
     std::array s = {5, 7, 4, 2, 8, 6, 1, 9, 0, 3};

     namespace ranges = std::ranges;

     // sort using the default operator<
     ranges::sort(s);
     print(s);

     // sort using a standard library compare function object
     ranges::sort(s, ranges::greater());
     print(s);

     // sort using a custom function object
     struct {
         bool operator()(int a, int b) const {
             return a < b;
         }
     } customLess;
     ranges::sort(s.begin(), s.end(), customLess);
     print(s);

     // sort using a lambda expression
     ranges::sort(s, [](int a, int b) {
         return a > b;
     });
     print(s);

     // sort with projection
     Particle particles[] {
         {"Electron", 0.511}, {"Muon", 105.66}, {"Tau", 1776.86},
         {"Positron", 0.511}, {"Proton", 938.27}, {"Neutron", 939.57},
     };
     ranges::sort(particles, {}, &Particle::name); //< sort by name
     print(particles);
     ranges::sort(particles, {}, &Particle::mass); //< sort by mass
     print(particles);
 }

.SH Output:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0

 Electron : 0.511
 Muon     : 105.66
 Neutron  : 939.57
 Positron : 0.511
 Proton   : 938.27
 Tau      : 1776.86

 Electron : 0.511
 Positron : 0.511
 Muon     : 105.66
 Proton   : 938.27
 Neutron  : 939.57
 Tau      : 1776.86

.SH See also

   ranges::partial_sort sorts the first N elements of a range
   (C++20)              (niebloid)
   ranges::stable_sort  sorts a range of elements while preserving order between equal
   (C++20)              elements
                        (niebloid)
   sort                 sorts a range into ascending order
                        \fI(function template)\fP

.SH Category:

     * Todo with reason
