.TH std::fsetpos 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::fsetpos \- std::fsetpos

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdio>
   int fsetpos( std::FILE* stream, const std::fpos_t* pos );

   Sets the file position indicator and the multibyte parsing state (if any) for the C
   file stream stream according to the value pointed to by pos.

   Besides establishing new parse state and position, a call to this function undoes
   the effects of std::ungetc and clears the end-of-file state, if it is set.

   If a read or write error occurs, the error indicator (std::ferror) for the stream is
   set.

.SH Parameters

   stream - file stream to modify
   pos    - pointer to a fpos_t object obtained from std::fgetpos called on a stream
            associated with the same file

.SH Return value

   0 upon success, nonzero value otherwise. Also, sets errno on failure.

.SH Notes

   After seeking to a non-end position in a wide stream, the next call to any output
   function may render the remainder of the file undefined, e.g. by outputting a
   multibyte sequence of a different length.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cstdio>
 #include <cstdlib>

 int main()
 {
     // Prepare an array of floating-point values.
     const int SIZE = 5;
     double A[SIZE] = {1., 2., 3., 4., 5.};
     // Write array to a file.
     std::FILE * fp = std::fopen("test.bin", "wb");
     std::fwrite(A, sizeof(double), SIZE, fp);
     std::fclose(fp);

     // Read the values into array B.
     double B[SIZE];
     fp = std::fopen("test.bin", "rb");
     std::fpos_t pos;
     if (std::fgetpos(fp, &pos) != 0)      // current position: start of file
     {
        std::perror("fgetpos()");
        std::fprintf(stderr, "fgetpos() failed in file %s at line # %d\\n",
                     __FILE__, __LINE__-3);
        std::exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
     }

     int ret_code = std::fread(B, sizeof(double), 1, fp);      // read one value
     // current position: after reading one value
     std::printf("%.1f; read count = %d\\n", B[0], ret_code);   // print one value and ret_code

     if (std::fsetpos(fp, &pos) != 0)   // reset current position to start of file
     {
        if (std::ferror(fp))
        {
           std::perror("fsetpos()");
           std::fprintf(stderr, "fsetpos() failed in file %s at line # %d\\n",
                        __FILE__, __LINE__-5);
           std::exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
        }
     }

     ret_code = std::fread(B, sizeof(double), 1, fp);         // re-read first value
     std::printf("%.1f; read count = %d\\n", B[0], ret_code);  // print one value and ret_code
     std::fclose(fp);

     return EXIT_SUCCESS;
 }

.SH Output:

 1.0; read count = 1
 1.0; read count = 1

.SH See also

   fgetpos gets the file position indicator
           \fI(function)\fP
   ftell   returns the current file position indicator
           \fI(function)\fP
   fseek   moves the file position indicator to a specific location in a file
           \fI(function)\fP
