.TH std::experimental::ranges::for_each 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::ranges::for_each \- std::experimental::ranges::for_each

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/ranges/algorithm>
   template< InputIterator I, Sentinel<I> S, class Proj =
   ranges::identity,

   IndirectUnaryInvocable<projected<I, Proj>> Fun >                     \fB(1)\fP (ranges TS)
   ranges::tagged_pair<tag::in(I), tag::fun(Fun)>

   for_each(I first, S last, Fun f, Proj proj = Proj{});
   template< InputRange R, class Proj = ranges::identity,

   IndirectUnaryInvocable<projected<ranges::iterator_t<R>, Proj>> Fun >
   ranges::tagged_pair<tag::in(ranges::safe_iterator_t<R>),             \fB(2)\fP (ranges TS)
   tag::fun(Fun)>

   for_each(R&& r, Fun f, Proj proj = Proj{});

   1) Invokes the given function object f to the result of invoking the projection proj
   on dereferencing every iterator in the range [first, last) (i.e.,ranges::invoke(f,
   ranges::invoke(proj, *i))), in order.
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but uses r as the source range, as if using ranges::begin(r) as
   first and ranges::end(r) as last.

   For both overloads, if the iterator type is mutable, f may modify the elements of
   the range through the dereferenced iterator. If f returns a result, the result is
   ignored.

   Unlike the rest of the algorithms, for_each is not allowed to make copies of the
   elements in the sequence even if they are trivially copyable.

   Unlike std::for_each (which requires only MoveConstructible), these functions
   require Fun to model CopyConstructible.

   Notwithstanding the declarations depicted above, the actual number and order of
   template parameters for algorithm declarations is unspecified. Thus, if explicit
   template arguments are used when calling an algorithm, the program is probably
   non-portable.

.SH Parameters

   first, last - the range to apply the function to
   r           - the range to apply the function to
   f           - callable object to be applied to each projected element in the range
   proj        - projection to apply to the elements

.SH Return value

   A tagged_pair object containing the following two members:

     * The first member, with the tag tag::in, is the past-the-end iterator of the
       source range (that is, an iterator of type I that compares equal to the sentinel
       last).
     * The second member, with the tag tag::fun, is initialized from std::move(f)
       (after all applications of the function object).

.SH Complexity

   Exactly last - first applications of f and proj

.SH Possible implementation

   template< InputIterator I, Sentinel<I> S, class Proj = ranges::identity,
             IndirectUnaryInvocable<ranges::projected<I, Proj>> Fun >
   auto for_each(I first, S last, Fun f, Proj proj = Proj{})
       -> ranges::tagged_pair<tag::in(I), tag::fun(Fun)>
   {
       for(; first != last; ++first) {
           ranges::invoke(f, ranges::invoke(proj, *first));
       }
       return {std::move(first), std::move(f)};
   }

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   transform      applies a function to a range of elements
                  \fI(function template)\fP
   range-for loop executes loop over range \fI(since C++11)\fP
   for_each       applies a function to a range of elements
                  \fI(function template)\fP
   for_each_n     applies a function object to the first n elements of a sequence
   \fI(C++17)\fP        \fI(function template)\fP
