.TH std::flat_map::at 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::flat_map::at \- std::flat_map::at

.SH Synopsis
   T& at( const Key& key );             \fB(1)\fP (since C++23)
   const T& at( const Key& key ) const; \fB(2)\fP (since C++23)
   template< class K >                  \fB(3)\fP (since C++23)
   T& at( const K& x );
   template< class K >                  \fB(4)\fP (since C++23)
   const T& at( const K& x ) const;

   Returns a reference to the mapped value of the element with specified key. If no
   such element exists, an exception of type std::out_of_range is thrown.

   1,2) The key is equivalent to key.
   3,4) The key compares equivalent to the value x. The reference to the mapped value
   is obtained as if by expression this->find(x)->second.
   The expression this->find(x) must be well-formed and have well-defined behavior,
   otherwise the behavior is undefined.
   These overloads participate in overload resolution only if the qualified-id
   Compare::is_transparent is valid and denotes a type. It allows calling this function
   without constructing an instance of Key.

.SH Parameters

   key - the key of the element to find
   x   - a value of any type that can be transparently compared with a key

.SH Return value

   A reference to the mapped value of the requested element.

.SH Exceptions

   1,2) std::out_of_range if the container does not have an element with the specified
   key.
   3,4) std::out_of_range if the container does not have the specified element, that
   is, if find(x) == end() is true.

.SH Complexity

   Logarithmic in the size of the container.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   operator[] access or insert specified element
              \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
