.TH std::c32rtomb 3 "Jun 28 2014" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cuchar>
   std::size_t c32rtomb( char* s, char32_t c32, std::mbstate_t* ps );  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Converts a 32-bit wide character to its narrow multibyte representation.

   If s is not a null pointer, the function determines the number of bytes necessary to
   store the multibyte character representation of c32 (including any shift sequences),
   and stores the multibyte character representation in the character array whose first
   element is pointed to by s. At most MB_CUR_MAX bytes can be written by this
   function.

   If s is a null pointer, the call is equivalent to std::c32rtomb(buf, U'\\0', ps) for
   some internal buffer buf.

   If c32 is the null wide character U'\\0', a null byte is stored, preceded by any
   shift sequence necessary to restore the initial shift state and the conversion state
   parameter *ps is updated to represent the initial shift state.

   If the macro __STDC_UTF_32__ is defined, the 32-bit encoding used by this function
   is UTF-32, otherwise it is implementation-defined. In any case, the multibyte
   encoding used by this function is specified by the currently active C locale.

.SH Parameters

   s   - pointer to narrow character array where the multibyte character will be stored
   c32 - the 32-bit character to convert
   ps  - pointer to the conversion state object used when interpreting the multibyte
         string

.SH Return value

   On success, returns the number of bytes (including any shift sequences) written to
   the character array whose first element is pointed to by s. This value may be 0,
   e.g. when processing the first char32_t in multi-char32_t-character sequence (does
   not occur in UTF-32).

   On failure (if c32 is not a valid 32-bit character), returns -1, stores EILSEQ in
   errno, and leaves *ps in unspecified state.

.SH See also

   mbrtoc32  generate the next 32-bit wide character from a narrow multibyte string
   \fI(C++11)\fP   \fI(function)\fP 
   do_out    converts a string from internT to externT, such as when writing to file
   \fB[virtual]\fP \fI(virtual protected member function of std::codecvt)\fP 
   C documentation for
   c32rtomb
