.TH std::basic_filebuf::setbuf 3 "Jun 28 2014" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   protected:
   virtual std::basic_streambuf<CharT, Traits>* setbuf( char_type* s, std::streamsize
   n )

   If s is a null pointer and n is zero, the filebuf becomes unbuffered for output,
   meaning pbase() and pptr() are null and any output is immediately sent to file.

   Otherwise, a call to setbuf() replaces the internal buffer (the controlled character
   sequence) with the user-supplied character array whose first element is pointed to
   by s and allows this std::basic_filebuf object to use up to n bytes in that array
   for buffering.

   This function is protected virtual, it may only be called through pubsetbuf() or
   from member functions of a user-defined class derived from std::basic_filebuf.

.SH Parameters

   s - pointer to the first byte in the user-provided buffer or null
   n - the number of bytes in the user-provided buffer or zero

.SH Return value

   *this, cast to the base class std::basic_streambuf.

.SH Notes

   The conditions when this function may be used and the way in which the provided
   buffer is used is implementation-defined.

     * GCC 4.6 libstdc++

   setbuf() may only be called when the std::basic_filebuf is not associated with a
   file (has no effect otherwise). With a user-provided buffer, reading from file reads
   n-1 bytes at a time.

     * Clang++3.0 libc++

   setbuf() may be called after opening the file, but before any I/O (may crash
   otherwise). With a user-provided buffer, reading from file reads largest multiples
   of 4096 that fit in the buffer.

     * Visual Studio 2010

   setbuf() may be called at any time, even after some I/O took place. Current contents
   of the buffer, if any, are lost.

   The standard does not define any behavior for this function except that setbuf(0, 0)
   called before any I/O has taken place is required to set unbuffered output.

.SH Example

   provide a 10k buffer for reading. On linux, the strace utility may be used to
   observe the actual number of bytes read

   
// Run this code

 #include <fstream>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
  
 int main()
 {
         int cnt = 0;
         std::ifstream file;
         char buf[10241];
  
         file.rdbuf()->pubsetbuf(buf, sizeof buf);
         file.open("/usr/share/dict/words");
  
         for (std::string line; getline(file, line); )
                 ++cnt;
         std::cout << cnt << '\\n';
 }

.SH See also

   pubsetbuf invokes setbuf()
             \fI(public member function of std::basic_streambuf)\fP 
   setvbuf   sets the buffer and its size for a file stream
             \fI(function)\fP 
