.TH std::fdim,std::fdimf,std::fdiml 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::fdim,std::fdimf,std::fdiml \- std::fdim,std::fdimf,std::fdiml

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float       fdim ( float x, float y );

   double      fdim ( double x, double y );                   (until C++23)

   long double fdim ( long double x, long double y );
   constexpr /* floating-point-type */

               fdim ( /* floating-point-type */ x,            (since C++23)
                                                      \fB(1)\fP
                      /* floating-point-type */ y );
   float       fdimf( float x, float y );                 \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                              (constexpr since C++23)
   long double fdiml( long double x, long double y );     \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                              (constexpr since C++23)
   Additional overloads \fI(since C++11)\fP
   Defined in header <cmath>
   template< class Integer >                              (A) (constexpr since C++23)
   double      fdim ( Integer x, Integer y );

   1-3) Returns the positive difference between x and y, that is, if x > y, returns x -
   y, otherwise (i.e. if x <= y) returns +0.
   The library provides overloads of std::fdim for all cv-unqualified floating-point
   types as the type of the parameters.
   (since C++23)

   A) Additional overloads are provided for all integer types, which are  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   treated as double.

.SH Parameters

   x, y - floating-point or integer values

.SH Return value

   If successful, returns the positive difference between x and y.

   If a range error due to overflow occurs, +HUGE_VAL, +HUGE_VALF, or +HUGE_VALL is
   returned.

   If a range error due to underflow occurs, the correct value (after rounding) is
   returned.

.SH Error handling

   Errors are reported as specified in math_errhandling.

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * If either argument is NaN, NaN is returned.

.SH Notes

   Equivalent to std::fmax(x - y, 0), except for the NaN handling requirements.

   The additional overloads are not required to be provided exactly as (A). They only
   need to be sufficient to ensure that for their first argument num1 and second
   argument num2:

     * If num1 or num2 has type long double, then std::fdim(num1, num2)
       has the same effect as std::fdim(static_cast<long double>(num1),
                 static_cast<long double>(num2)).
     * Otherwise, if num1 and/or num2 has type double or an integer type,
       then std::fdim(num1, num2) has the same effect as                  (until C++23)
       std::fdim(static_cast<double>(num1),
                 static_cast<double>(num2)).
     * Otherwise, if num1 or num2 has type float, then std::fdim(num1,
       num2) has the same effect as std::fdim(static_cast<float>(num1),
                 static_cast<float>(num2)).
   If num1 and num2 have arithmetic types, then std::fdim(num1, num2) has
   the same effect as std::fdim(static_cast</* common-floating-point-type
   */>(num1),
             static_cast</* common-floating-point-type */>(num2)), where
   /* common-floating-point-type */ is the floating-point type with the
   greatest floating-point conversion rank and greatest floating-point
   conversion subrank between the types of num1 and num2, arguments of    (since C++23)
   integer type are considered to have the same floating-point conversion
   rank as double.

   If no such floating-point type with the greatest rank and subrank
   exists, then overload resolution does not result in a usable candidate
   from the overloads provided.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cerrno>
 #include <cfenv>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <cstring>
 #include <iostream>

 #ifndef __GNUC__
 #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS ON
 #endif

 int main()
 {
     std::cout << "fdim(4, 1) = " << std::fdim(4, 1) << '\\n'
               << "fdim(1, 4) = " << std::fdim(1, 4) << '\\n'
               << "fdim(4,-1) = " << std::fdim(4, -1) << '\\n'
               << "fdim(1,-4) = " << std::fdim(1, -4) << '\\n';

     // error handling
     errno = 0;
     std::feclearexcept(FE_ALL_EXCEPT);

     std::cout << "fdim(1e308, -1e308) = " << std::fdim(1e308, -1e308) << '\\n';

     if (errno == ERANGE)
         std::cout << "    errno == ERANGE: " << std::strerror(errno) << '\\n';
     if (std::fetestexcept(FE_OVERFLOW))
         std::cout << "    FE_OVERFLOW raised\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 fdim(4, 1) = 3
 fdim(1, 4) = 0
 fdim(4,-1) = 5
 fdim(1,-4) = 5
 fdim(1e308, -1e308) = inf
     errno == ERANGE: Numerical result out of range
     FE_OVERFLOW raised

.SH See also

   abs(int)
   labs     computes absolute value of an integral value (\\(\\small{|x|}\\)|x|)
   llabs    \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   fmax
   fmaxf
   fmaxl    larger of two floating-point values
   \fI(C++11)\fP  \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   C documentation for
   fdim
