.TH std::scanf,std::fscanf,std::sscanf 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::scanf,std::fscanf,std::sscanf \- std::scanf,std::fscanf,std::sscanf

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdio>
   int scanf( const char* format, ... );                    \fB(1)\fP
   int fscanf( std::FILE* stream, const char* format, ... );  \fB(2)\fP
   int sscanf( const char* buffer, const char* format, ... ); \fB(3)\fP

   Reads data from the a variety of sources, interprets it according to format and
   stores the results into given locations.

   1) Reads the data from stdin
   2) Reads the data from file stream stream
   3) Reads the data from null-terminated character string buffer

.SH Parameters

stream - input file stream to read from
buffer - pointer to a null-terminated character string to read from
         pointer to a null-terminated character string specifying how to read the input.

         The format string consists of

           * non-whitespace multibyte characters except %: each such character in the format string consumes exactly one
             identical character from the input stream, or causes the function to fail if the next character on the stream
             does not compare equal.
           * whitespace characters: any single whitespace character in the format string consumes all available consecutive
             whitespace characters from the input (determined as if by calling isspace in a loop). Note that there is no
             difference between "\\n", " ", "\\t\\t", or other whitespace in the format string.
           * conversion specifications. Each conversion specification has the following format:

           * introductory % character

           * (optional) assignment-suppressing character *. If this option is present, the function does not assign the
             result of the conversion to any receiving argument.

           * (optional) integer number (greater than zero) that specifies maximum field width, that is, the maximum number of
             characters that the function is allowed to consume when doing the conversion specified by the current conversion
             specification. Note that %s and %[ may lead to buffer overflow if the width is not provided.

           * (optional) length modifier that specifies the size of the receiving argument, that is, the actual destination
             type. This affects the conversion accuracy and overflow rules. The default destination type is different for
             each conversion type (see table below).

           * conversion format specifier

         The following format specifiers are available:

         Conversion      Explanation                                         Argument type
         specifier
                                              hh                                  ll        j         z        t
                  length modifier                      h      \fI(none)\fP     l                                               L
                                           \fI(C++11)\fP                             (C++11)   (C++11)   (C++11)  (C++11)
             %      matches literal %      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A
                    matches a character or
                    a sequence of
                    characters

                    If a width specifier
                    is used, matches
                    exactly width
             c      characters (the
                    argument must be a
                    pointer to an array
                    with sufficient room).
                    Unlike %s and %[, does
                    not append the null
                    character to the
                    array.
                    matches a sequence of
                    non-whitespace
                    characters (a string)

                    If width specifier is
                    used, matches up to
                    width or until the
                    first whitespace
             s      character, whichever
                    appears first. Always
                    stores a null
                    character in addition
                    to the characters
                    matched (so the
                    argument array must
                    have room for at least
                    width+1 characters)    N/A      N/A      char*    wchar_t* N/A      N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A
                    matches a non-empty
                    sequence of character
                    from set of
                    characters.

                    If the first character
                    of the set is ^, then
                    all characters not in
                    the set are matched.
                    If the set begins with
                    ] or ^] then the ]
                    character is also
                    included into the set.
                    It is
                    implementation-defined
           [set]    whether the character
                    - in the non-initial
                    position in the
                    scanset may be
                    indicating a range, as
                    in [0-9]. If width
                    specifier is used,
                    matches only up to
                    width. Always stores a
                    null character in
                    addition to the
                    characters matched (so
                    the argument array
                    must have room for at
                    least width+1
                    characters)
format -            matches a decimal
                    integer.

             d      The format of the
                    number is the same as
                    expected by strtol()
                    with the value 10 for
                    the base argument
                    matches an integer.

                    The format of the
                    number is the same as
             i      expected by strtol()
                    with the value 0 for
                    the base argument
                    (base is determined by
                    the first characters
                    parsed)
                    matches an unsigned
                    decimal integer.

             u      The format of the
                    number is the same as
                    expected by strtoul()                                      signed
                    with the value 10 for  signed   signed   signed   signed   long
                    the base argument.     char* or short*   int* or  long* or long* or intmax_t*
                    matches an unsigned    unsigned or       unsigned unsigned unsigned or         size_t* ptrdiff_t* N/A
                    octal integer.         char*    unsigned int*     long*    long     uintmax_t*
                                                    short*                     long*
             o      The format of the
                    number is the same as
                    expected by strtoul()
                    with the value 8 for
                    the base argument
                    matches an unsigned
                    hexadecimal integer.

            x, X    The format of the
                    number is the same as
                    expected by strtoul()
                    with the value 16 for
                    the base argument
                    returns the number of
                    characters read so
                    far.

                    No input is consumed.
             n      Does not increment the
                    assignment count. If
                    the specifier has
                    assignment-suppressing
                    operator defined, the
                    behavior is undefined
             a,     matches a
          A\fI(C++11)\fP  floating-point number.
            e, E                           N/A      N/A      float*   double*  N/A      N/A        N/A     N/A        long
            f, F    The format of the                                                                                 double*
            g, G    number is the same as
                    expected by strtof()
                    matches implementation
                    defined character
                    sequence defining a
                    pointer.
             p                             N/A      N/A      void**   N/A      N/A      N/A        N/A     N/A        N/A
                    printf family of
                    functions should
                    produce the same
                    sequence using %p
                    format specifier

         For every conversion specifier other than n, the longest sequence of input characters which does not exceed any
         speciﬁed ﬁeld width and which either is exactly what the conversion specifier expects or is a prefix of a sequence
         it would expect, is what's consumed from the stream. The ﬁrst character, if any, after this consumed sequence
         remains unread. If the consumed sequence has length zero or if the consumed sequence cannot be converted as
         specified above, the matching failure occurs unless end-of-ﬁle, an encoding error, or a read error prevented input
         from the stream, in which case it is an input failure.

         All conversion specifiers other than [, c, and n consume and discard all leading whitespace characters (determined
         as if by calling isspace) before attempting to parse the input. These consumed characters do not count towards the
         specified maximum field width.

         The conversion specifiers lc, ls, and l[ perform multibyte-to-wide character conversion as if by calling mbrtowc()
         with an mbstate_t object initialized to zero before the first character is converted.

         The conversion specifiers s and [ always store the null terminator in addition to the matched characters. The size
         of the destination array must be at least one greater than the specified field width. The use of %s or %[, without
         specifying the destination array size, is as unsafe as std::gets

         The correct conversion specifications for the fixed-width integer types (int8_t, etc) are defined in the header
         <cinttypes> (although SCNdMAX, SCNuMAX, etc is synonymous with %jd, %ju, etc).

         There is a sequence point after the action of each conversion specifier; this permits storing multiple fields in the
         same "sink" variable.

         When parsing an incomplete floating-point value that ends in the exponent with no digits, such as parsing "100er"
         with the conversion specifier %f, the sequence "100e" (the longest prefix of a possibly valid floating-point number)
         is consumed, resulting in a matching error (the consumed sequence cannot be converted to a floating-point number),
         with "r" remaining. Some existing implementations do not follow this rule and roll back to consume only "100",
         leaving "er", e.g. glibc bug 1765
...    - receiving arguments

.SH Return value

   Number of receiving arguments successfully assigned (which may be zero in case a
   matching failure occurred before the first receiving argument was assigned), or EOF
   if input failure occurs before the first receiving argument was assigned.

.SH Notes

   Because most conversion specifiers first consume all consecutive whitespace, code
   such as

 std::scanf("%d", &a);
 std::scanf("%d", &b);

   will read two integers that are entered on different lines (second %d will consume
   the newline left over by the first) or on the same line, separated by spaces or tabs
   (second %d will consume the spaces or tabs).

   The conversion specifiers that do not consume leading whitespace, such as %c, can be
   made to do so by using a whitespace character in the format string:

 std::scanf("%d", &a);
 std::scanf(" %c", &c); // ignore the endline after %d, then read a char

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <clocale>
 #include <cstdio>

 int main()
 {
     int i, j;
     float x, y;
     char str1[10], str2[4];
     wchar_t warr[2];
     std::setlocale(LC_ALL, "en_US.utf8");

     char input[] = u8"25 54.32E-1 Thompson 56789 0123 56ß水";
     // parse as follows:
     // %d: an integer
     // %f: a floating-point value
     // %9s: a string of at most 9 non-whitespace characters
     // %2d: two-digit integer (digits 5 and 6)
     // %f: a floating-point value (digits 7, 8, 9)
     // %*d an integer which isn't stored anywhere
     // ' ': all consecutive whitespace
     // %3[0-9]: a string of at most 3 digits (digits 5 and 6)
     // %2lc: two wide characters, using multibyte to wide conversion
     int ret = std::sscanf(input, "%d%f%9s%2d%f%*d %3[0-9]%2lc",
                      &i, &x, str1, &j, &y, str2, warr);

     std::cout << "Converted " << ret << " fields:\\n"
               << "i = " << i << "\\nx = " << x << '\\n'
               << "str1 = " << str1 << "\\nj = " << j << '\\n'
               << "y = " << y << "\\nstr2 = " << str2 << '\\n'
               << std::hex << "warr[0] = U+" << warr[0]
               << " warr[1] = U+" << warr[1] << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 Converted 7 fields:
 i = 25
 x = 5.432
 str1 = Thompson
 j = 56
 y = 789
 str2 = 56
 warr[0] = U+df warr[1] = U+6c34

.SH See also

   vscanf
   vfscanf    reads formatted input from stdin, a file stream or a buffer
   vsscanf    using variable argument list
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   fgets      gets a character string from a file stream
              \fI(function)\fP
   printf
   fprintf    prints formatted output to stdout, a file stream or a buffer
   sprintf    \fI(function)\fP
   snprintf
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   from_chars converts a character sequence to an integer or floating-point value
   \fI(C++17)\fP    \fI(function)\fP
