.TH std::mbrtoc8 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::mbrtoc8 \- std::mbrtoc8

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cuchar>
   std::size_t mbrtoc8( char8_t* pc8,

                        const char* s,         \fI(since C++20)\fP
                        std::size_t n,

                        std::mbstate_t* ps );

   Converts a narrow multibyte character to UTF-8 encoding.

   If s is not a null pointer, inspects at most n bytes of the multibyte character
   string, beginning with the byte pointed to by s to determine the number of bytes
   necessary to complete the next multibyte character (including any shift sequences).
   If the function determines that the next multibyte character in s is complete and
   valid, converts it to UTF-8 and stores the first UTf-8 code unit in *pc8 (if pc8 is
   not null).

   If UTF-8 encoding of the multibyte character in *s consists of more than one UTF-8
   code unit, then after the first call to this function, *ps is updated in such a way
   that the next call to mbrtoc8 will write out the additional UTF-8 code units,
   without considering *s.

   If s is a null pointer, the values of n and pc8 are ignored and the call is
   equivalent to std::mbrtoc8(NULL, "", 1, ps).

   If UTF-8 code unit produced is u8'\\0', the conversion state *ps represents the
   initial shift state.

   The multibyte encoding used by this function is specified by the currently active C
   locale.

.SH Parameters

   pc8 - pointer to the location where the resulting UTF-8 code units will be written
   s   - pointer to the multibyte character string used as input
   n   - limit on the number of bytes in s that can be examined
   ps  - pointer to the conversion state object used when interpreting the multibyte
         string

.SH Return value

   The first of the following that applies:

     * if the character converted from s (and stored in *pc8 if non-null) was the
       null character
     * the number of bytes [1...n] of the multibyte character successfully converted
       from s
     * -3 if the next UTF-8 code unit from a character whose encoding consists of
       multiple code units has now been written to *pc8. No bytes are processed from
       the input in this case.
     * -2 if the next n bytes constitute an incomplete, but so far valid, multibyte
       character. Nothing is written to *pc8.
     * -1 if encoding error occurs. Nothing is written to *pc8, the value EILSEQ is
       stored in errno and the value of *ps is unspecified.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   c8rtomb converts UTF-8 string to narrow multibyte encoding
   (C++20) \fI(function)\fP 

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
