.TH std::flat_map::insert 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::flat_map::insert \- std::flat_map::insert

.SH Synopsis
   std::pair<iterator, bool> insert( const value_type& value );      \fB(1)\fP  (since C++23)
   std::pair<iterator, bool> insert( value_type&& value );           \fB(2)\fP  (since C++23)
   iterator insert( const_iterator pos, const value_type& value );   \fB(3)\fP  (since C++23)
   iterator insert( const_iterator pos, value_type&& value );        \fB(4)\fP  (since C++23)
   template< class P >                                               \fB(5)\fP  (since C++23)
   std::pair<iterator, bool> insert( P&& x );
   template< class P >                                               \fB(6)\fP  (since C++23)
   iterator insert( const_iterator pos, P&& x );
   template< class InputIt >                                         \fB(7)\fP  (since C++23)
   void insert( InputIt first, InputIt last );
   template< class InputIt >                                         \fB(8)\fP  (since C++23)
   void insert( std::sorted_unique_t, InputIt first, InputIt last );
   void insert( std::initializer_list<key_type> ilist );             \fB(9)\fP  (since C++23)
   void insert( std::sorted_unique_t s,                              \fB(10)\fP (since C++23)
   std::initializer_list<key_type> ilist );

   Inserts element(s) into the container, if the container does not already contain an
   element with an equivalent key.

   1) Inserts value. Equivalent to return emplace(value);.
   2) Inserts value. Equivalent to return emplace(std::move(value));.
   3) Inserts value in the position as close as possible to the position just prior to
   pos. Equivalent to return emplace_hint(pos, value);.
   4) Inserts value in the position as close as possible to the position just prior to
   pos. Equivalent to return emplace_hint(pos, std::move(value));.
   5) If *this already contains an element which transparently compares equivalent to
   x, does nothing. Otherwise, inserts x into *this as if by
   emplace(std::forward<P>(x));. This overload participates in overload resolution only
   if std::is_constructible_v<pair<key_type, mapped_type>, P> is true.
   6) If *this already contains an element which transparently compares equivalent to
   x, does nothing. Otherwise, inserts x into *this in the position as close as
   possible to the position just prior to pos. Equivalent to return
   emplace_hint(position, std::forward<P>(x));. This overload participates in overload
   resolution only if std::is_constructible_v<pair<key_type, mapped_type>, P> is true.
   7) Inserts elements from range [first, last) as if performing the following
   operations sequentially:
    1. Adds elements to c as if by
       for (; first != last; ++first)
       {
           value_type value = *first;
           c.keys.insert(c.keys.end(), std::move(value.first));
           c.values.insert(c.values.end(), std::move(value.second));
       }
    2. Sorts the range of newly inserted elements with respect to value_comp.
    3. Merges the resulting sorted range and the sorted range of pre-existing elements
       into a single sorted range.
    4. Erases the duplicate elements as if by:
       auto zv = std::views::zip(c.keys, c.values);
       auto it = ranges::unique(zv, key_equiv(compare)).begin();
       auto dist = std::distance(zv.begin(), it);
       c.keys.erase(c.keys.begin() + dist, c.keys.end());
       c.values.erase(c.values.begin() + dist, c.values.end());
   May allocate memory during the in-place merge operation.
   If multiple elements in the range have keys that compare equivalent, it is
   unspecified which element is inserted (pending LWG2844).
   8) Inserts elements from range [first, last) as if performing the following
   operations sequentially:
    1. Adds elements to c as if by
       for (; first != last; ++first)
       {
           value_type value = *first;
           c.keys.insert(c.keys.end(), std::move(value.first));
           c.values.insert(c.values.end(), std::move(value.second));
       }
    2. Merges the sorted range of newly added elements and the sorted range of
       pre-existing elements into a single sorted range.
    3. Erases the duplicate elements as if by:
       auto zv = std::views::zip(c.keys, c.values);
       auto it = ranges::unique(zv, key_equiv(compare)).begin();
       auto dist = std::distance(zv.begin(), it);
       c.keys.erase(c.keys.begin() + dist, c.keys.end());
       c.values.erase(c.values.begin() + dist, c.values.end());
   May allocate memory during the in-place merge operation.
   If multiple elements in the range have keys that compare equivalent, it is
   unspecified which element is inserted (pending LWG2844).
   9) Inserts elements from initializer list ilist. Equivalent to insert(ilist.begin(),
   ilist.end());.
   If multiple elements in the range have keys that compare equivalent, it is
   unspecified which element is inserted (pending LWG2844).
   10) Inserts elements from initializer list ilist. Equivalent to insert(s,
   ilist.begin(), ilist.end());.
   If multiple elements in the range have keys that compare equivalent, it is
   unspecified which element is inserted (pending LWG2844).

    Information on iterator invalidation is copied from here

.SH Parameters

   pos         - an iterator to the position before which the new element will be
                 inserted
   value       - an element value to insert
   first, last - a range of elements to insert
   ilist       - an initializer list to insert the values from
   x           - a value of any type that can be transparently compared with a key
   s           - a disambiguation tag indicating that the input sequence is sorted
                 (with respect to value_comp()) and contains only unique elements
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of LegacyInputIterator.

.SH Return value

   1,2) A pair consisting of an iterator to the inserted element (or to the element
   that prevented the insertion) and a bool value set to true if and only if the
   insertion took place.
   3,4) An iterator to the inserted element, or to the element that prevented the
   insertion.
   5) A pair consisting of an iterator to the inserted element (or to the element that
   prevented the insertion) and a bool value set to true if and only if the insertion
   took place.
   6) An iterator to the inserted element, or to the element that prevented the
   insertion.
   7-10) \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   1-6) If an exception is thrown by any operation, the insertion has no effect.

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: cases 7-10

.SH Complexity

   1-6) Linear in size().
   7) N + M·log(M), where N is the size() before the operation and M is
   std::distance(first, last).
   8) Linear in size().
   9) N + M·log(M), where N is the size() before the operation and M is ilist.size().
   10) Linear in N, where N is size() after the operation.

.SH Notes

   The hinted insert (3,4,6) does not return a boolean in order to be
   signature-compatible with positional insert on sequential containers, such as
   std::vector::insert. This makes it possible to create generic inserters such as
   std::inserter. One way to check success of a hinted insert is to compare size()
   before and after.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   emplace          constructs element in-place
                    \fI(public member function)\fP
   emplace_hint     constructs elements in-place using a hint
                    \fI(public member function)\fP
                    inserts an element or assigns to the current element if the key
   insert_or_assign already exists
                    \fI(public member function)\fP
   inserter         creates a std::insert_iterator of type inferred from the argument
                    \fI(function template)\fP

.SH Categories:
     * Todo with reason
     * Todo no example
