.TH std::distance 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::distance \- std::distance

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <iterator>
   template< class InputIt >

   typename std::iterator_traits<InputIt>::difference_type            \fI(until C++17)\fP

       distance( InputIt first, InputIt last );
   template< class InputIt >

   constexpr typename std::iterator_traits<InputIt>::difference_type  \fI(since C++17)\fP

       distance( InputIt first, InputIt last );

   Returns the number of elements between first and last.

.SH Parameters

   first              -              iterator pointing to the first element
   last               -              iterator pointing to the end of the range
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of InputIterator. The operation is more efficient
   if InputIt additionally meets the requirements of RandomAccessIterator

.SH Return value

   The number of increments needed to go from first to last.
   The value may be negative if random-access iterators are used and first is reachable
   from last
   \fI(since C++11)\fP

.SH Complexity

   Linear.

   However, if InputIt additionally meets the requirements of RandomAccessIterator,
   complexity is constant.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <iterator>
 #include <vector>
  
 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> v{ 3, 1, 4 };
     std::cout << "distance(first, last) = "
               << std::distance(v.begin(), v.end()) << '\\n'
               << "distance(last, first) = "
               << std::distance(v.end(), v.begin()) << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 distance(first, last) = 3
 distance(last, first) = -3

.SH See also

   advance advances an iterator by given distance
           \fI(function)\fP 

   The behavior is undefined if last is not reachable from first by       \fI(until C++11)\fP
   (possibly repeatedly) incrementing first.
   If InputIt is not RandomAccessIterator, the behavior is undefined if
   last is not reachable from first by (possibly repeatedly) incrementing
   first. If InputIt is RandomAccessIterator, the behavior is undefined   \fI(since C++11)\fP
   if last is not reachable from first and first is not reachable from
   last.
