.TH std::basic_string::find 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_string::find \- std::basic_string::find

.SH Synopsis
   size_type find( const basic_string& str, size_type pos = \fB(1)\fP (noexcept since C++11)
   0 ) const;                                                   (constexpr since C++20)
   size_type find( const CharT* s, size_type pos, size_type \fB(2)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   count ) const;
   size_type find( const CharT* s, size_type pos = 0 )      \fB(3)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   const;
   size_type find( CharT ch, size_type pos = 0 ) const;     \fB(4)\fP (noexcept since C++11)
                                                                (constexpr since C++20)
   template< class StringViewLike >

   size_type find( const StringViewLike& t,                 \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
                                                                (constexpr since C++20)
                   size_type pos = 0 ) const noexcept(/*
   see below */);

   Finds the first substring equal to the given character sequence. Search begins at
   pos, i.e. the found substring must not begin in a position preceding pos.

   1) Finds the first substring equal to str.
   2) Finds the first substring equal to the range [s, s + count). This range may
   contain null characters.
   If [s, s + count) is not a valid range, the behavior is undefined.
   3) Finds the first substring equal to the character string pointed to by s. The
   length of the string is determined by the first null character using
   Traits::length(s).
   If [s, s + Traits::length(s)) is not a valid range, the behavior is undefined.
   4) Finds the first character ch (treated as a single-character substring by the
   formal rules below).
   5) Implicitly converts t to a string view sv as if by std::basic_string_view<CharT,
   Traits> sv = t;, then finds the first substring equal to sv.
   This overload participates in overload resolution only if
   std::is_convertible_v<const StringViewLike&,
                         std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>> is true and
   std::is_convertible_v<const StringViewLike&, const CharT*> is false.

   Formally, a substring str is said to be found at position xpos if all of the
   following are true:

     * xpos >= pos
     * xpos + str.size() <= size()
     * for all positions n in str, Traits::eq(at(xpos + n), str.at(n)).

   In particular, this implies that

     * a substring can be found only if pos <= size() - str.size()
     * an empty substring is found at pos if and only if pos <= size()
     * for a non-empty substring, if pos >= size(), the function always returns npos.

.SH Parameters

   str   - string to search for
   pos   - position at which to start the search
   count - length of substring to search for
   s     - pointer to a character string to search for
   ch    - character to search for
   t     - object (convertible to std::basic_string_view) to search for

.SH Return value

   Position of the first character of the found substring or npos if no such substring
   is found.

.SH Exceptions

   1,4) Throws nothing.
   5)
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(std::is_nothrow_convertible_v<const T&, std::basic_string_view<CharT,
   Traits>>)

   If an exception is thrown for any reason, this function has no effect (strong
   exception safety guarantee).

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iomanip>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>

 void print(int id, std::string::size_type n, std::string const& s)
 {
     std::cout << id << ") ";
     if (std::string::npos == n)
         std::cout << "not found! n == npos\\n";
     else
         std::cout << "found @ n = " << n << ", substr(" << n << ") = "
                   << std::quoted(s.substr(n)) << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::string::size_type n;
     std::string const s = "This is a string"; /*
                              ^  ^  ^
                              1  2  3          */

     // search from beginning of string
     n = s.find("is");
     print(1, n, s);

     // search from position 5
     n = s.find("is", 5);
     print(2, n, s);

     // find a single character
     n = s.find('a');
     print(3, n, s);

     // find a single character
     n = s.find('q');
     print(4, n, s);
 }

.SH Output:

 1) found @ n = 2, substr\fB(2)\fP = "is is a string"
 2) found @ n = 5, substr\fB(5)\fP = "is a string"
 3) found @ n = 8, substr\fB(8)\fP = "a string"
 4) not found! n == npos

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to           Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 847  C++98      there was no exception safety guarantee   added strong exception
                                                                 safety guarantee
   LWG 2064 C++11      overloads (3,4) were noexcept             removed
   LWG 2946 C++17      overload \fB(5)\fP caused ambiguity in some     avoided by making it a
                       cases                                     template
   P1148R0  C++11      noexcept for overloads (4,5) were         restored
            C++17      accidently dropped by LWG2064/LWG2946

.SH See also

   strstr            finds the first occurrence of a substring of characters
                     \fI(function)\fP
                     finds the first occurrence of a wide string within another wide
   wcsstr            string
                     \fI(function)\fP
   strchr            finds the first occurrence of a character
                     \fI(function)\fP
   wcschr            finds the first occurrence of a wide character in a wide string
                     \fI(function)\fP
   rfind             find the last occurrence of a substring
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_first_of     find first occurrence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_first_not_of find first absence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_last_of      find last occurrence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_last_not_of  find last absence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
                     find characters in the view
   find              \fI(public member function of std::basic_string_view<CharT,Traits>)\fP

   search            searches for a range of elements
                     \fI(function template)\fP

.SH Category:
     * conditionally noexcept
