.TH std::wmemcmp 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::wmemcmp \- std::wmemcmp

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cwchar>
   int wmemcmp( const wchar_t* lhs, const wchar_t* rhs, std::size_t count );

   Compares the first count wide characters of the wide character arrays pointed to by
   lhs and rhs. The comparison is done lexicographically.

   The sign of the result is the sign of the difference between the values of the first
   pair of wide characters that differ in the arrays being compared.

   If count is zero, the function does nothing.

.SH Parameters

   lhs, rhs - pointers to the wide character arrays to compare
   count    - number of wide characters to examine

.SH Return value

   Negative value if the value of the first differing wide character in lhs is less
   than the value of the corresponding wide character in rhs: lhs precedes rhs in
   lexicographical order.

   0 if all count wide characters of lhs and rhs are equal.

   Positive value if the value of the first differing wide character in lhs is greater
   than the value of the corresponding wide character in rhs: rhs precedes lhs in
   lexicographical order.

.SH Notes

   This function is not locale-sensitive and pays no attention to the values of the
   wchar_t objects it examines: nulls as well as invalid wide characters are compared
   too.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <cwchar>
 #include <locale>
 #include <clocale>

 void demo(const wchar_t* lhs, const wchar_t* rhs, std::size_t sz)
 {
     std::wcout << std::wstring(lhs, sz);
     int rc = std::wmemcmp(lhs, rhs, sz);
     if(rc == 0)
         std::wcout << " compares equal to ";
     else if(rc < 0)
         std::wcout << " precedes ";
     else if(rc > 0)
         std::wcout << " follows ";
     std::wcout << std::wstring(rhs, sz) << " in lexicographical order\\n";
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::setlocale(LC_ALL, "en_US.utf8");
     std::wcout.imbue(std::locale("en_US.utf8"));

     wchar_t a1[] = {L'α',L'β',L'γ'};
     constexpr std::size_t sz = sizeof a1 / sizeof *a1;
     wchar_t a2[sz] = {L'α',L'β',L'δ'};

     demo(a1, a2, sz);
     demo(a2, a1, sz);
     demo(a1, a1, sz);
 }

.SH Possible output:

 αβγ precedes αβδ in lexicographical order
 αβδ follows αβγ in lexicographical order
 αβγ compares equal to αβγ in lexicographical order

.SH See also

   wcscmp  compares two wide strings
           \fI(function)\fP
   memcmp  compares two buffers
           \fI(function)\fP
   wcsncmp compares a certain amount of characters from two wide strings
           \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   wmemcmp
