.TH std::valarray::shift 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::valarray::shift \- std::valarray::shift

.SH Synopsis
   valarray<T> shift( int count ) const;

   Returns a new valarray of the same size with elements whose positions are shifted by
   count elements. The new position of each element is i−count where i is the previous
   position. The value of shifted in elements is T().

.SH Parameters

   count - number of positions to shift the elements by

.SH Return value

   The resulting valarray with shifted elements.

.SH Notes

   The function can be implemented with the return type different from std::valarray.
   In this case, the replacement type has the following properties:

     * All const member functions of std::valarray are provided.
     * std::valarray, std::slice_array, std::gslice_array, std::mask_array and
       std::indirect_array can be constructed from the replacement type.
     * For every function taking a const std::valarray<T>&
       except begin() and end()
       \fI(since C++11)\fP, identical functions taking the replacement types shall be added;
     * For every function taking two const std::valarray<T>& arguments, identical
       functions taking every combination of const std::valarray<T>& and replacement
       types shall be added.
     * The return type does not add more than two levels of template nesting over the
       most deeply-nested argument type.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <valarray>

 int main()
 {
     std::valarray<int> v{1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8};

     for (auto const& val : v)
         std::cout << val << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';

     std::valarray<int> v2 = v.shift(2);

     for (auto const& val : v2)
         std::cout << val << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
 3 4 5 6 7 8 0 0

.SH See also

   cshift circular shift of the elements of the valarray
          \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Hidden category:
     * Pages with unreviewed LWG DR marker
