.TH std::strtok 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::strtok \- std::strtok

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstring>
   char* strtok( char* str, const char* delim );

   Finds the next token in a null-terminated byte string pointed to by str. The
   separator characters are identified by null-terminated byte string pointed to by
   delim.

   This function is designed to be called multiple times to obtain successive tokens
   from the same string.

     * If str is not a null pointer, the call is treated as the first call to strtok
       for this particular string. The function searches for the first character which
       is not contained in delim.

              * If no such character was found, there are no tokens in str at all, and
                the function returns a null pointer.
              * If such character was found, it is the beginning of the token. The
                function then searches from that point on for the first character that
                is contained in delim.

                           * If no such character was found, str has only one token,
                             and the future calls to strtok will return a null pointer
                           * If such character was found, it is replaced by the null
                             character '\\0' and the pointer to the following character
                             is stored in a static location for subsequent invocations.

              * The function then returns the pointer to the beginning of the token

     * If str is a null pointer, the call is treated as a subsequent call to strtok:
       the function continues from where it left in previous invocation. The behavior
       is the same as if the previously stored pointer is passed as str.

.SH Parameters

   str   - pointer to the null-terminated byte string to tokenize
   delim - pointer to the null-terminated byte string identifying delimiters

.SH Return value

   Pointer to the beginning of the next token or a nullptr if there are no more tokens.

.SH Notes

   This function is destructive: it writes the '\\0' characters in the elements of the
   string str. In particular, a string literal cannot be used as the first argument of
   std::strtok.

   Each call to this function modifies a static variable: is not thread safe.

   Unlike most other tokenizers, the delimiters in std::strtok can be different for
   each subsequent token, and can even depend on the contents of the previous tokens.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cstring>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <iomanip>

 int main()
 {
     char input[] = "one + two * (three - four)!";
     const char* delimiters = "! +- (*)";
     char *token = std::strtok(input, delimiters);
     while (token) {
         std::cout << std::quoted(token) << ' ';
         token = std::strtok(nullptr, delimiters);
     }

     std::cout << "\\nContents of the input string now:\\n\\"";
     for (std::size_t n = 0; n < sizeof input; ++n) {
         if (const char c = input[n]; c != '\\0')
             std::cout << c;
         else
             std::cout << "\\\\0";
     }
     std::cout << "\\"\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 "one" "two" "three" "four"
 Contents of the input string now:
 "one\\0+ two\\0* (three\\0- four\\0!\\0"

.SH See also

                      finds the first location of any character from a set of
   strpbrk            separators
                      \fI(function)\fP
                      returns the length of the maximum initial segment that consists
   strcspn            of only the characters not found in another byte string
                      \fI(function)\fP
                      returns the length of the maximum initial segment that consists
   strspn             of only the characters found in another byte string
                      \fI(function)\fP
   ranges::split_view a view over the subranges obtained from splitting another view
   views::split       using a delimiter
   (C++20)            \fI(class template)\fP (range adaptor object)
