.TH std::deque::shrink_to_fit 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::deque::shrink_to_fit \- std::deque::shrink_to_fit

.SH Synopsis
   void shrink_to_fit();

   Requests the removal of unused capacity.

   It is a non-binding request to reduce the memory usage without changing the size of
   the sequence. It depends on the implementation whether the request is fulfilled.

   All iterators (including the end() iterator) and references are invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Type requirements
   -
   T must meet the requirements of MoveInsertable into *this. \fI(since C++11)\fP

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Complexity

   At most linear in the size of the container.

.SH Exceptions
                                                                          \fI(since C++11)\fP
   If an exception is thrown other than by the move constructor of a
   non-CopyInsertable T, there are no effects.

.SH Notes

   In libstdc++, shrink_to_fit() is not available in C++98 mode.

.SH Example



// Run this code

 #include <cstddef>
 #include <deque>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <new>

 // Minimal C++11 allocator with debug output.
 template<class Tp>
 struct NAlloc
 {
     typedef Tp value_type;

     NAlloc() = default;

     template<class T> NAlloc(const NAlloc<T>&) {}

     Tp* allocate(std::size_t n)
     {
         n *= sizeof(Tp);
         std::cout << "allocating " << n << " bytes\\n";
         return static_cast<Tp*>(::operator new(n));
     }

     void deallocate(Tp* p, std::size_t n)
     {
         std::cout << "deallocating " << n*sizeof*p << " bytes\\n";
         ::operator delete(p);
     }
 };
 template<class T, class U>
 bool operator==(const NAlloc<T>&, const NAlloc<U>&) { return true; }
 template<class T, class U>
 bool operator!=(const NAlloc<T>&, const NAlloc<U>&) { return false; }

 int main()
 {
     // std::queue has no capacity() function (like std::vector).
     // Because of this, we use a custom allocator to show the
     // working of shrink_to_fit.

     std::cout << "Default-construct deque:\\n";
     std::deque<int, NAlloc<int>> deq;

     std::cout << "\\nAdd 300 elements:\\n";
     for (int i = 1000; i < 1300; ++i)
         deq.push_back(i);

     std::cout << "\\nPop 100 elements:\\n";
     for (int i = 0; i < 100; ++i)
         deq.pop_front();

     std::cout << "\\nRun shrink_to_fit:\\n";
     deq.shrink_to_fit();

     std::cout << "\\nDestroy deque as it goes out of scope:\\n";
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Default-construct deque:
 allocating 64 bytes
 allocating 512 bytes

 Add 300 elements:
 allocating 512 bytes
 allocating 512 bytes

 Pop 100 elements:

 Run shrink_to_fit:
 allocating 64 bytes
 allocating 512 bytes
 allocating 512 bytes
 deallocating 512 bytes
 deallocating 512 bytes
 deallocating 512 bytes
 deallocating 64 bytes

 Destroy deque as it goes out of scope:
 deallocating 512 bytes
 deallocating 512 bytes
 deallocating 64 bytes

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to              Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 850  C++98      std::deque lacked explicit shrink-to-fit        provided
                       operations
   LWG 2033 C++11      1. T was not required to be MoveInsertable      1. required
                       2. the complexity requirement was missing       2. added

.SH See also

   size returns the number of elements
        \fI(public member function)\fP
