.TH std::vector::emplace 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::vector::emplace \- std::vector::emplace

.SH Synopsis
   template< class... Args >                                          \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iterator emplace( const_iterator pos, Args&&... args );            \fI(until C++20)\fP
   template< class... Args >                                          \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr iterator emplace( const_iterator pos, Args&&... args );

   Inserts a new element into the container directly before pos.

   The element is constructed through std::allocator_traits::construct, which typically
   uses placement-new to construct the element in-place at a location provided by the
   container. However, if the required location has been occupied by an existing
   element, the inserted element is constructed at another location at first, and then
   move assigned into the required location.

   The arguments args... are forwarded to the constructor as
   std::forward<Args>(args).... args... may directly or indirectly refer to a value in
   the container.

   If the new size() is greater than capacity(), all iterators and references are
   invalidated. Otherwise, only the iterators and references before the insertion point
   remain valid. The past-the-end iterator is also invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   pos            -           iterator before which the new element will be constructed
   args           -           arguments to forward to the constructor of the element
.SH Type requirements
   -
   T (the container's element type) must meet the requirements of MoveAssignable,
   MoveInsertable and EmplaceConstructible.

.SH Return value

   Iterator pointing to the emplaced element.

.SH Complexity

   Linear in the distance between pos and end of the container.

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown other than by the copy constructor, move constructor,
   assignment operator, or move assignment operator of the value type, or if an
   exception is thrown while emplace is used to insert a single element at the end and
   the value type is either CopyInsertable or nothrow move constructible, there are no
   effects \fI(strong exception guarantee)\fP.

   Otherwise, the effects are unspecified.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <vector>

 struct A {
     std::string s;
     A(std::string str) : s(std::move(str))  { std::cout << " constructed\\n"; }
     A(const A& o) : s(o.s) { std::cout << " copy constructed\\n"; }
     A(A&& o) : s(std::move(o.s)) { std::cout << " move constructed\\n"; }
     A& operator=(const A& other) {
         s = other.s;
         std::cout << " copy assigned\\n";
         return *this;
     }
     A& operator=(A&& other) {
         s = std::move(other.s);
         std::cout << " move assigned\\n";
         return *this;
     }
 };

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<A> container;
     // reserve enough place so vector does not have to resize
     container.reserve(10);
     std::cout << "construct 2 times A:\\n";
     A two { "two" };
     A three { "three" };

     std::cout << "emplace:\\n";
     container.emplace(container.end(), "one");

     std::cout << "emplace with A&:\\n";
     container.emplace(container.end(), two);

     std::cout << "emplace with A&&:\\n";
     container.emplace(container.end(), std::move(three));

     std::cout << "content:\\n";
     for (const auto& obj : container)
         std::cout << ' ' << obj.s;
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 construct 2 times A:
  constructed
  constructed
 emplace:
  constructed
 emplace with A&:
  copy constructed
 emplace with A&&:
  move constructed
 content:
  one two three

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to              Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 2164 C++11      it was not clear whether the arguments can      clarified
                       refer to the container

.SH See also

   insert       inserts elements
                \fI(public member function)\fP
   emplace_back constructs an element in-place at the end
   \fI(C++11)\fP      \fI(public member function)\fP
