.TH std::uninitialized_value_construct_n 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::uninitialized_value_construct_n \- std::uninitialized_value_construct_n

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <memory>
   template< class ForwardIt, class Size >
   ForwardIt uninitialized_value_construct_n( ForwardIt first, Size n \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class ForwardIt, class Size >

   ForwardIt uninitialized_value_construct_n( ExecutionPolicy&&
   policy,                                                            \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP

                                              ForwardIt first, Size n
   );

   1) Constructs n objects of type typename iterator_traits<ForwardIt>::value_type in
   the uninitialized storage starting at first by value-initialization, as if by for (;
   n > 0; (void) ++first, --n)
       ::new (static_cast<void*>(std::addressof(*first)))
           typename std::iterator_traits<ForwardIt>::value_type();
   If an exception is thrown during the initialization, the objects already constructed
   are destroyed in an unspecified order.
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but executed according to policy. This overload participates in
   overload resolution only if

   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true.        (until
                                                                             C++20)
   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::remove_cvref_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true. (since
                                                                             C++20)

.SH Parameters

   first             -          the beginning of the range of elements to initialize
   n                 -          the number of elements to initialize
   policy            -          the execution policy to use. See execution policy for
                                details.
.SH Type requirements
   -
   ForwardIt must meet the requirements of LegacyForwardIterator.
   -
   No increment, assignment, comparison, or indirection through valid instances of
   ForwardIt may throw exceptions.

.SH Return value

   The end of the range of objects (i.e., std::next(first, n)).

.SH Complexity

   Linear in n.

.SH Exceptions

   The overload with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy reports errors as
   follows:

     * If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception
       and ExecutionPolicy is one of the standard policies, std::terminate is called.
       For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.
     * If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

.SH Possible implementation

   template<class ForwardIt, class Size>
   ForwardIt uninitialized_value_construct_n(ForwardIt first, Size n)
   {
       using T = typename std::iterator_traits<ForwardIt>::value_type;
       ForwardIt current = first;
       try
       {
           for (; n > 0 ; (void) ++current, --n)
               ::new (const_cast<void*>(static_cast<const volatile void*>(
                   std::addressof(*current)))) T();
           return current;
       }
       catch (...)
       {
           std::destroy(first, current);
           throw;
       }
   }

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <memory>
 #include <string>

 int main()
 {
     struct S { std::string m{"Default value"}; };

     constexpr int n{3};
     alignas(alignof(S)) unsigned char mem[n * sizeof(S)];

     try
     {
         auto first{reinterpret_cast<S*>(mem)};
         auto last = std::uninitialized_value_construct_n(first, n);

         for (auto it{first}; it != last; ++it)
             std::cout << it->m << '\\n';

         std::destroy(first, last);
     }
     catch (...)
     {
         std::cout << "Exception!\\n";
     }

     // Notice that for "trivial types" the uninitialized_value_construct_n
     // zero-initializes the given uninitialized memory area.
     int v[]{1, 2, 3, 4};
     for (const int i : v)
         std::cout << i << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
     std::uninitialized_value_construct_n(std::begin(v), std::size(v));
     for (const int i : v)
         std::cout << i << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 Default value
 Default value
 Default value
 1 2 3 4
 0 0 0 0

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to              Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 3870 C++20      this algorithm might create objects on a const  kept disallowed
                       storage

.SH See also

                                           constructs objects by value-initialization
   uninitialized_value_construct           in an uninitialized area of memory, defined
   \fI(C++17)\fP                                 by a range
                                           \fI(function template)\fP
                                           constructs objects by default-initialization
   uninitialized_default_construct_n       in an uninitialized area of memory, defined
   \fI(C++17)\fP                                 by a start and a count
                                           \fI(function template)\fP
                                           constructs objects by value-initialization
   ranges::uninitialized_value_construct_n in an uninitialized area of memory, defined
   (C++20)                                 by a start and a count
                                           (niebloid)
