.TH std::mbsrtowcs 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::mbsrtowcs \- std::mbsrtowcs

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cwchar>
   std::size_t mbsrtowcs( wchar_t* dst,

                          const char** src,
                          std::size_t len,

                          std::mbstate_t* ps );

   Converts a null-terminated multibyte character sequence, which begins in the
   conversion state described by *ps, from the array whose first element is pointed to
   by *src to its wide character representation. If dst is not null, converted
   characters are stored in the successive elements of the wchar_t array pointed to by
   dst. No more than len wide characters are written to the destination array.

   Each multibyte character is converted as if by a call to std::mbrtowc. The
   conversion stops if:

     * The multibyte null character was converted and stored. src is set to a null
       pointer and *ps represents the initial shift state.
     * An invalid multibyte character (according to the current C locale) was
       encountered. src is set to point at the beginning of the first unconverted
       multibyte character.
     * the next wide character to be stored would exceed len. src is set to point at
       the beginning of the first unconverted multibyte character. This condition is
       not checked if dst is a null pointer.

.SH Parameters

   dst - pointer to wide character array where the results will be stored
   src - pointer to pointer to the first element of a null-terminated multibyte string
   len - number of wide characters available in the array pointed to by dst
   ps  - pointer to the conversion state object

.SH Return value

   On success, returns the number of wide characters, excluding the terminating L'\\0',
   written to the character array. If dst is a null pointer, returns the number of wide
   characters that would have been written given unlimited length.

   On conversion error (if invalid multibyte character was encountered), returns
   static_cast<std::size_t>(-1), stores EILSEQ in errno, and leaves *ps in unspecified
   state.

.SH Notes

   This function moves the src pointer to the end of the converted multibyte string.
   This doesn't happen if dst is a null pointer.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <vector>
 #include <clocale>
 #include <cwchar>

 void print_as_wide(const char* mbstr)
 {
     std::mbstate_t state = std::mbstate_t();
     std::size_t len = 1 + std::mbsrtowcs(NULL, &mbstr, 0, &state);
     std::vector<wchar_t> wstr(len);
     std::mbsrtowcs(&wstr[0], &mbstr, wstr.size(), &state);
     std::wcout << "Wide string: " << &wstr[0] << '\\n'
                << "The length, including '\\\\0': " << wstr.size() << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::setlocale(LC_ALL, "en_US.utf8");
     const char* mbstr = u8"z\\u00df\\u6c34\\U0001f34c"; // or u8"zÃŸæ°´ðŸŒ"
     print_as_wide(mbstr);
 }

.SH Output:

 Wide string: zÃŸæ°´ðŸŒ
 The length, including '\\0': 5

.SH See also

   mbrtowc   converts the next multibyte character to wide character, given state
             \fI(function)\fP
   wcsrtombs converts a wide string to narrow multibyte character string, given state
             \fI(function)\fP
   do_in     converts a string from externT to internT, such as when reading from file
   \fB[virtual]\fP \fI(virtual protected member function of std::codecvt<InternT,ExternT,State>)\fP

   C documentation for
   mbsrtowcs
