.TH std::strtoul,std::strtoull 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::strtoul,std::strtoull \- std::strtoul,std::strtoull

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdlib>
   unsigned long      strtoul( const char *str, char **str_end, int base
   );
   unsigned long long strtoull( const char *str, char **str_end, int      \fI(since C++11)\fP
   base );

   Interprets an unsigned integer value in a byte string pointed to by str.

   Discards any whitespace characters (as identified by calling isspace()) until the
   first non-whitespace character is found, then takes as many characters as possible
   to form a valid base-n (where n=base) unsigned integer number representation and
   converts them to an integer value. The valid unsigned integer value consists of the
   following parts:

     * (optional) plus or minus sign
     * (optional) prefix \fB(0)\fP indicating octal base (applies only when the base is 8 or
       0)
     * (optional) prefix (0x or 0X) indicating hexadecimal base (applies only when the
       base is 16 or 0)
     * a sequence of digits

   The set of valid values for base is {0,2,3,...,36}. The set of valid digits for
   base-2 integers is {0,1}, for base-3 integers is {0,1,2}, and so on. For bases
   larger than 10, valid digits include alphabetic characters, starting from Aa for
   base-11 integer, to Zz for base-36 integer. The case of the characters is ignored.

   Additional numeric formats may be accepted by the currently installed C locale.

   If the value of base is 0, the numeric base is auto-detected: if the prefix is 0,
   the base is octal, if the prefix is 0x or 0X, the base is hexadecimal, otherwise the
   base is decimal.

   If the minus sign was part of the input sequence, the numeric value calculated from
   the sequence of digits is negated as if by unary minus in the result type, which
   applies unsigned integer wraparound rules.

   The functions sets the pointer pointed to by str_end to point to the character past
   the last character interpreted. If str_end is NULL, it is ignored.

.SH Parameters

   str     - pointer to the null-terminated byte string to be interpreted
   str_end - pointer to a pointer to character.
   base    - base of the interpreted integer value

.SH Return value

   Integer value corresponding to the contents of str on success. If the converted
   value falls out of range of corresponding return type, range error occurs and
   ULONG_MAX or ULLONG_MAX is returned. If no conversion can be performed, 0 is
   returned.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <errno.h>
 #include <cstdlib>
  
 int main()
 {
     const char* p = "10 200000000000000000000000000000 30 -40";
     char *end;
     std::cout << "Parsing '" << p << "':\\n";
     for (unsigned long i = std::strtoul(p, &end, 10);
          p != end;
          i = std::strtoul(p, &end, 10))
     {
         std::cout << "'" << std::string(p, end-p) << "' -> ";
         p = end;
         if (errno == ERANGE){
             std::cout << "range error, got ";
             errno = 0;
         }
         std::cout << i << '\\n';
     }
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Parsing '10 200000000000000000000000000000 30 -40':
 '10' -> 10
 ' 200000000000000000000000000000' -> range error, got 18446744073709551615
 ' 30' -> 30
 ' -40' -> 18446744073709551576

.SH See also

   wcstoul  converts a wide string to an unsigned integer value
   wcstoull \fI(function)\fP 
   atoi     converts a byte string to an integer value
   atol     \fI(function)\fP 
   atoll
   strtol   converts a byte string to an integer value
   strtoll  \fI(function)\fP 
   C documentation for
   strtoul,
   strtoull
