.TH std::ranges::in_in_result 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::in_in_result \- std::ranges::in_in_result

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class I1, class I2 >  \fI(since C++20)\fP
   struct in_in_result;

   ranges::in_in_result is a class template that provides a way to store two iterators
   as a single unit.

   This class template has no base classes or declared members other than those shown
   below. Thus it is suitable for use with structured bindings.

   All special member functions of this class template are implicitly declared, which
   makes specializations be aggregate classes, and propagate triviality,
   potentially-throwing-ness, and constexpr-ness of corresponding operations on data
   members.

.SH Template parameters

   I1, I2 - the types of the iterators that the ranges::in_in_result stores.

   Data members

   Member name Definition
   in1         a value (that is supposed to be an iterator) of type I1.
               \fI(public member object)\fP
   in2         a value (that is supposed to be an iterator) of type I2.
               \fI(public member object)\fP

   All these members are declared with [[no_unique_address]] attribute.

.SH Member functions

std::ranges::in_in_result::operator in_in_result<II1, II2>

   template<class II1, class II2>

   requires std::convertible_to<const I1&, II1> && std::convertible_to<const I2&,  \fB(1)\fP
   II2>

   constexpr operator in_in_result<II1, II2>() const &;
   template<class II1, class II2>

   requires std::convertible_to<I1, II1> && std::convertible_to<I2, II2>           \fB(2)\fP

   constexpr operator in_in_result<II1, II2>() &&;

   Converts *this to the result by constructing every data member of the result from
   the corresponding member of *this.

   1) Equivalent to return {in1, in2};.
   2) Equivalent to return {std::move(in1), std::move(in2)};.

.SH Standard library

   The following standard library functions use ranges::in_in_result as the return
   type:

         Algorithm functions
   ranges::mismatch    finds the first position where two ranges differ
   (C++20)             (niebloid)
   ranges::swap_ranges swaps two ranges of elements
   (C++20)             (niebloid)

.SH Synopsis

 namespace std::ranges
 {
     template<class I1, class I2>
     struct in_in_result
     {
         [[no_unique_address]] I1 in1;
         [[no_unique_address]] I2 in2;

         template<class II1, class II2>
         requires std::convertible_to<const I1&, II1> && std::convertible_to<const I2&, II2>
         constexpr operator in_in_result<II1, II2>() const &
         {
             return {in1, in2};
         }

         template<class II1, class II2>
         requires std::convertible_to<I1, II1> && std::convertible_to<I2, II2>
         constexpr operator in_in_result<II1, II2>() &&
         {
             return {std::move(in1), std::move(in2)};
         }
     };
 }

.SH Notes

   Each standard library algorithm that uses this family of return types declares a new
   alias type, e.g. using merge_result = in_in_out_result<I1, I2, O>;.

   The names for such aliases are formed by adding the suffix "_result" to the
   algorithm's name. So, the return type of std::ranges::merge can be named as
   std::ranges::merge_result.

   Unlike std::pair and std::tuple, this class template has data members of meaningful
   names.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <ranges>

 int main()
 {
     constexpr static auto in1 = {1, 2, 3, 4};
     constexpr static auto in2 = {1, 2, 4, 5};

     constexpr auto result {std::ranges::mismatch(in1, in2)};

     static_assert(2 == std::ranges::distance(in1.begin(), result.in1));
     static_assert(2 == std::ranges::distance(in2.begin(), result.in2));
 }

.SH See also

   pair    implements binary tuple, i.e. a pair of values
           \fI(class template)\fP
   tuple   implements fixed size container, which holds elements of possibly different
   \fI(C++11)\fP types
           \fI(class template)\fP
