.TH std::equal 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::equal \- std::equal

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class InputIt1, class InputIt2 >

   bool equal( InputIt1 first1, InputIt1 last1,                       \fB(1)\fP

               InputIt2 first2 );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class InputIt1, class InputIt2 >

   bool equal( ExecutionPolicy&& policy, InputIt1 first1, InputIt1    \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   last1,

               InputIt2 first2 );
   template< class InputIt1, class InputIt2, class BinaryPredicate >

   bool equal( InputIt1 first1, InputIt1 last1,                       \fB(3)\fP

               InputIt2 first2, BinaryPredicate p );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class InputIt1, class InputIt2,
   class BinaryPredicate >

   bool equal( ExecutionPolicy&& policy, InputIt1 first1, InputIt1    \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   last1,

               InputIt2 first2, BinaryPredicate p );
   template< class InputIt1, class InputIt2 >

   bool equal( InputIt1 first1, InputIt1 last1,                       \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++14)\fP

               InputIt2 first2, InputIt2 last2 );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class InputIt1, class InputIt2 >

   bool equal( ExecutionPolicy&& policy, InputIt1 first1, InputIt1    \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   last1,

               InputIt2 first2, InputIt2 last2 );
   template< class InputIt1, class InputIt2, class BinaryPredicate >

   bool equal( InputIt1 first1, InputIt1 last1,                       \fB(7)\fP \fI(since C++14)\fP
               InputIt2 first2, InputIt2 last2,

               BinaryPredicate p );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class InputIt1, class InputIt2,
   class BinaryPredicate >

   bool equal( ExecutionPolicy&& policy, InputIt1 first1, InputIt1    \fB(8)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   last1,
               InputIt2 first2, InputIt2 last2,

               BinaryPredicate p );

   1,3) Returns true if the range [first1, last1) is equal to the range [first2, first2
   + (last1 - first1)), and false otherwise
   5,7) Returns true if the range [first1, last1) is equal to the range [first2,
   last2), and false otherwise.
   2,4,6,8) Same as (1,3,5,7), but executed according to policy. These overloads do not
   participate in overload resolution unless
   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true

   The two ranges are considered equal if, for every iterator i in the range
   [first1,last1), *i equals *(first2 + (i - first1)). The overloads (1,2,5,6) use
   operator== to determine if two elements are equal, whereas overloads (3,4,7,8) use
   the given binary predicate p.

.SH Parameters

   first1, last1 - the first range of the elements to compare
   first2, last2 - the second range of the elements to compare
   policy        - the execution policy to use. See execution policy for details.
                   binary predicate which returns true if the elements should be
                   treated as equal.

                   The signature of the predicate function should be equivalent to the
                   following:

                    bool pred(const Type1 &a, const Type2 &b);
   p             -
                   The signature does not need to have const &, but the function must
                   not modify the objects passed to it.
                   The types Type1 and Type2 must be such that objects of types
                   InputIt1 and InputIt2 can be dereferenced and then implicitly
                   converted to Type1 and Type2 respectively.

                   
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt1, InputIt2 must meet the requirements of InputIterator.

.SH Return value

   5-8) If the length of the range [first1, last1) does not equal the length of the
   range [first2, last2), returns false

   If the elements in the two ranges are equal, returns true.

   Otherwise returns false.

.SH Notes

   std::equal should not be used to compare the ranges formed by the iterators from
   std::unordered_set, std::unordered_multiset, std::unordered_map, or
   std::unordered_multimap because the order in which the elements are stored in those
   containers may be different even if the two containers store the same elements.

   When comparing entire containers for equality, operator== for the corresponding
   container are usually preferred.

.SH Complexity

   1-4) At most last1 - first1 applications of the predicate
   5-8) At most min(last1 - first1, last2 - first2) applications of the predicate.
   However, if InputIt1 and InputIt2 meet the requirements of RandomAccessIterator and
   last1 - first1 != last2 - first2 then no applications of the predicate are made.

.SH Exceptions

   The overloads with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy report errors as
   follows:

     * If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception
       and ExecutionPolicy is one of the three standard policies, std::terminate is
       called. For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.
     * If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

.SH Possible implementation

.SH First version
   template<class InputIt1, class InputIt2>
   bool equal(InputIt1 first1, InputIt1 last1,
              InputIt2 first2)
   {
       for (; first1 != last1; ++first1, ++first2) {
           if (!(*first1 == *first2)) {
               return false;
           }
       }
       return true;
   }
.SH Second version
   template<class InputIt1, class InputIt2, class BinaryPredicate>
   bool equal(InputIt1 first1, InputIt1 last1,
              InputIt2 first2, BinaryPredicate p)
   {
       for (; first1 != last1; ++first1, ++first2) {
           if (!p(*first1, *first2)) {
               return false;
           }
       }
       return true;
   }

.SH Example

   The following code uses equal() to test if a string is a palindrome

   
// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
  
 bool is_palindrome(const std::string& s)
 {
     return std::equal(s.begin(), s.begin() + s.size()/2, s.rbegin());
 }
  
 void test(const std::string& s)
 {
     std::cout << "\\"" << s << "\\" "
         << (is_palindrome(s) ? "is" : "is not")
         << " a palindrome\\n";
 }
  
 int main()
 {
     test("radar");
     test("hello");
 }

.SH Output:

 "radar" is a palindrome
 "hello" is not a palindrome

   find
   find_if                 finds the first element satisfying specific criteria
   find_if_not             \fI(function template)\fP 
   \fI(C++11)\fP
                           returns true if one range is lexicographically less than
   lexicographical_compare another
                           \fI(function template)\fP 
   mismatch                finds the first position where two ranges differ
                           \fI(function template)\fP 
   search                  searches for a range of elements
                           \fI(function template)\fP 
