.TH std::vprint_unicode,std::vprint_unicode_locking 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::vprint_unicode,std::vprint_unicode_locking \- std::vprint_unicode,std::vprint_unicode_locking

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <print>
   void vprint_unicode( std::string_view fmt, std::format_args args   \fB(1)\fP (since C++23)
   );
   void vprint_unicode( std::FILE* stream,
                        std::string_view fmt, std::format_args args   \fB(2)\fP (since C++23)
   );
   void vprint_unicode_locking( std::FILE* stream,
                                std::string_view fmt,                 \fB(3)\fP (since C++23)
   std::format_args args );

   Format args according to the format string fmt, and writes the result to the output
   stream.

   1) Equivalent to std::vprint_unicode(stdout, fmt, args).
   2) Equivalent to std::string out = std::vformat(fmt, args);
   std::vprint_unicode_locking(stream, "{}", std::make_format_args(out));.
   3) Performs the following operations in order:
    1. Locks stream.
    2. Let out denote the character representation of formatting arguments provided by
       args formatted according to specifications given in fmt.
    3. Writes out to stream:

     * If stream refers to a terminal capable of displaying Unicode, flushes stream and
       writes out to the terminal using the native Unicode API.
     * Otherwise, writes unmodified out to the stream.
   Unconditionally unlocks stream on function exit.
   If any of the following condition is satisfied, the behavior is undefined:
     * stream is not a valid pointer to an output C stream.
     * out contains invalid Unicode code units if the native Unicode API is used.

.SH Parameters

   stream - output file stream to write to

            an object that represents the format string. The format string consists of
              * ordinary characters (except { and }), which are copied unchanged to the
                output,
              * escape sequences {{ and }}, which are replaced with { and }
                respectively in the output, and
              * replacement fields.

            Each replacement field has the following format:

            { arg-id (optional) }               \fB(1)\fP
            { arg-id (optional) : format-spec } \fB(2)\fP

            1) replacement field without a format specification
            2) replacement field with a format specification

                          specifies the index of the argument in args whose value is to
                          be used for formatting; if it is omitted, the arguments are
            arg-id      - used in order.

                          The arg-id s in a format string must all be present or all be
                          omitted. Mixing manual and automatic indexing is an error.
   fmt    -               the format specification defined by the std::formatter
            format-spec - specialization for the corresponding argument. Cannot start
                          with }.

              * For basic types and standard string types, the format specification is
                interpreted as standard format specification.
              * For chrono types, the format specification is interpreted as chrono
                format specification.

              * For range types, the format specification is interpreted
                as range format specification.
              * For std::pair and std::tuple, the format specification is
                interpreted as tuple format specification.
              * For std::thread::id and std::stacktrace_entry, see thread (since C++23)
                id format specification and stacktrace entry format
                specification.
              * For std::basic_stacktrace, no format specifier is
                allowed.

              * For std::filesystem::path, see path format specification. (since C++26)

              * For other formattable types, the format specification is determined by
                user-defined formatter specializations.
   args   - arguments to be formatted

.SH Exceptions

     * std::bad_alloc on allocation failure.
     * std::system_error, if writing to the stream fails.
     * Propagates any exception thrown by used formatters, e.g. std::format_error.

.SH Notes

   The C++ standard encourages the implementers to produce a diagnostic message if out
   contains invalid Unicode code units.

   On POSIX, the stream refers to a terminal if the expression isatty(fileno(stream))
   != 0 holds true (see POSIX documentation for isatty, and fileno).

   On Windows, the stream refers to a terminal if the expression
   GetConsoleMode(_get_osfhandle(_fileno(stream))) returns nonzero (see Windows
   documentation for GetConsoleMode, _get_osfhandle, and _fileno). The native Unicode
   API on Windows is WriteConsoleW.

   If invoking the native Unicode API requires transcoding, the invalid code units are
   substituted with U+FFFD REPLACEMENT CHARACTER (see "The Unicode Standard Version
   14.0 - Core Specification", Chapter 3.9).

   Feature-test macro  Value    Std                 Feature
                      202207L (C++23) Formatted output
   __cpp_lib_print    202403L (C++26) Formatted output with stream locking
                              (DR23)
   __cpp_lib_format   202207L (C++23) Exposing std::basic_format_string

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   vprint_nonunicode            prints to stdout or a file stream using type-erased
   vprint_nonunicode_locking    argument representation
   (C++23)                      \fI(function)\fP
   (C++23)
   vprint_unicode(std::ostream) performs Unicode aware output using type-erased
   (C++23)                      argument representation
                                \fI(function)\fP
   print                        prints to stdout or a file stream using formatted
   (C++23)                      representation of the arguments
                                \fI(function template)\fP
   format                       stores formatted representation of the arguments in a
   (C++20)                      new string
                                \fI(function template)\fP

.SH External links

   1.  Unicode
   2.  The Unicode Standard Version 14.0 - Core Specification

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
