.TH std::wcstoimax,std::wcstoumax 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::wcstoimax,std::wcstoumax \- std::wcstoimax,std::wcstoumax

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cinttypes>
   std::intmax_t wcstoimax( const wchar_t* nptr, wchar_t** endptr, int    \fI(since C++11)\fP
   base );
   std::uintmax_t wcstoumax( const wchar_t* nptr, wchar_t** endptr, int   \fI(since C++11)\fP
   base );

   Interprets an unsigned integer value in a wide string pointed to by nptr.

   Discards any whitespace characters (as identified by calling isspace()) until the
   first non-whitespace character is found, then takes as many characters as possible
   to form a valid base-n (where n=base) unsigned integer number representation and
   converts them to an integer value. The valid unsigned integer value consists of the
   following parts:

     * (optional) plus or minus sign
     * (optional) prefix \fB(0)\fP indicating octal base (applies only when the base is 8
       or)
     * (optional) prefix (0x or 0X) indicating hexadecimal base (applies only when the
       base is 16 or)
     * a sequence of digits

   The set of valid values for base is {0,2,3,...,36}. The set of valid digits for
   base-2 integers is {0,1}, for base-3 integers is {0,1,2}, and so on. For bases
   larger than 10, valid digits include alphabetic characters, starting from Aa for
   base-11 integer, to Zz for base-36 integer. The case of the characters is ignored.

   Additional numeric formats may be accepted by the currently installed C locale.

   If the value of base is, the numeric base is auto-detected: if the prefix is 0,
   the base is octal, if the prefix is 0x or 0X, the base is hexadecimal, otherwise the
   base is decimal.

   If the minus sign was part of the input sequence, the numeric value calculated from
   the sequence of digits is negated as if by unary minus in the result type, which
   applies unsigned integer wraparound rules.

   The functions sets the pointer pointed to by endptr to point to the wide character
   past the last character interpreted. If endptr is NULL, it is ignored.

.SH Parameters

   nptr   - pointer to the null-terminated wide string to be interpreted
   endptr - pointer to a pointer to a wide character.
   base   - base of the interpreted integer value

.SH Return value

   Integer value corresponding to the contents of str on success. If the converted
   value falls out of range of corresponding return type, range error occurs and
   INTMAX_MAX, INTMAX_MIN, UINTMAX_MAX, or is returned, as appropriate. If no
   conversion can be performed, is returned.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <cinttypes>
  
 int main()
 {
     std::wstring str = L"helloworld";
     std::intmax_t val = std::wcstoimax(str.c_str(), nullptr, 36);
     std::wcout << str << " in base 36 is " << val << " in base 10\\n";
  
     wchar_t* nptr;
     val = std::wcstoimax(str.c_str(), &nptr, 30);
     if(nptr != &str[0] + str.size())
         std::wcout << str << " in base 30 is invalid."
                   << " The first invalid digit is " << *nptr << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 helloworld in base 36 is 1767707668033969 in base 10
 helloworld in base 30 is invalid. The first invalid digit is w

.SH See also

   strtoimax
   strtoumax converts a byte string to std::intmax_t or std::uintmax_t
   \fI(C++11)\fP   \fI(function)\fP 
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   wcstol    converts a wide string to an integer value
   wcstoll   \fI(function)\fP 
   wcstoul   converts a wide string to an unsigned integer value
   wcstoull  \fI(function)\fP 
   C documentation for
   wcstoimax,
   wcstoumax
