.TH std::basic_regexconstants 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_regexconstants \- std::basic_regexconstants

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <regex>
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type icase =

   std::regex_constants::icase;
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type nosubs =
   std::regex_constants::nosubs;
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type optimize =
   std::regex_constants::optimize;
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type collate =
   std::regex_constants::collate;
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type ECMAScript
   =
   std::regex_constants::ECMAScript;
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type basic =
   std::regex_constants::basic;
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type extended =
   std::regex_constants::extended;
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type awk =
   std::regex_constants::awk;
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type grep =
   std::regex_constants::grep;
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type egrep =

   std::regex_constants::egrep;
   static constexpr std::regex_constants::syntax_option_type multiline =  \fI(since C++17)\fP
   std::regex_constants::multiline;

   std::basic_regex defines several constants that govern general regex matching
   syntax.

   These constants are duplicated from std::regex_constants:

   Value             Effect(s)
   icase             Character matching should be performed without regard to case.
                     When performing matches, all marked sub-expressions (expr) are
   nosubs            treated as non-marking sub-expressions (?:expr). No matches are
                     stored in the supplied std::regex_match structure and mark_count()
                     is zero.
                     Instructs the regular expression engine to make matching faster,
   optimize          with the potential cost of making construction slower. For
                     example, this might mean converting a non-deterministic FSA to a
                     deterministic FSA.
   collate           Character ranges of the form "[a-b]" will be locale sensitive.
   multiline \fI(C++17)\fP Specifies that ^ shall match the beginning of a line and $ shall
                     match the end of a line, if the ECMAScript engine is selected.
   ECMAScript        Use the Modified ECMAScript regular expression grammar.
   basic             Use the basic POSIX regular expression grammar (grammar
                     documentation).
   extended          Use the extended POSIX regular expression grammar (grammar
                     documentation).
   awk               Use the regular expression grammar used by the awk utility in
                     POSIX (grammar documentation).
                     Use the regular expression grammar used by the grep utility in
   grep              POSIX. This is effectively the same as the basic option with the
                     addition of newline '\\n' as an alternation separator.
                     Use the regular expression grammar used by the grep utility, with
   egrep             the -E option, in POSIX. This is effectively the same as the
                     extended option with the addition of newline '\\n' as an
                     alternation separator in addition to '|'.

   At most one grammar option must be chosen out of ECMAScript, basic, extended, awk,
   grep, egrep. If no grammar is chosen, ECMAScript is assumed to be selected. The
   other options serve as modifiers, such that std::regex("meow", std::regex::icase) is
   equivalent to std::regex("meow", std::regex::ECMAScript|std::regex::icase).

.SH See also

   syntax_option_type general options controlling regex behavior
   \fI(C++11)\fP            \fI(typedef)\fP
