.TH std::auto_ptr 3 "Sep  4 2015" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <memory>
   template< class T > class auto_ptr; \fB(1)\fP (until C++17)
                                           (deprecated since C++11)
   template<> class auto_ptr<void>;    \fB(2)\fP (until C++17)
                                           (deprecated since C++11)

   auto_ptr is a smart pointer that manages an object obtained via new expression and
   deletes that object when auto_ptr itself is destroyed. It may be used to provide
   exception safety for dynamically-allocated objects, for passing ownership of
   dynamically-allocated objects into functions and for returning dynamically-allocated
   objects from functions.

   Copying an auto_ptr copies the pointer and transfers ownership to the destination:
   both copy construction and copy assignment of auto_ptr modify their right hand
   arguments, and the "copy" is not equal to the original. Because of these unusual
   copy semantics, auto_ptr may not be placed in standard containers.
   std::unique_ptr is preferred for this and other uses.
   \fI(since C++11)\fP

   2) Specialization for type void is provided, it declares the typedef element_type,
   but no member functions.

   An additional class template auto_ptr_ref is referred to throughout the
   documentation. It is an implementation-defined type that holds a reference to
   auto_ptr. The implementation is allowed to provide the template with a different
   name or implement the functions returning it or accepting it as parameter in other
   ways.

.SH Member types

   Member type  Definition
   element_type T

.SH Member functions

   constructor              creates a new auto_ptr
                            \fI(public member function)\fP
   destructor               destroys an auto_ptr and the managed object
                            \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=                transfers ownership from another auto_ptr
                            \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator auto_ptr<Y>     converts the managed pointer to a pointer to different type
   operator auto_ptr_ref<Y> \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Observers
   get                      obtains a pointer to the managed object
                            \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator*                accesses the managed object
   operator->               \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Modifiers
   reset                    destroys the managed object
                            \fI(public member function)\fP
   release                  releases ownership of the managed object
                            \fI(public member function)\fP
