.TH std::basic_streambuf<CharT,Traits>::pubseekoff, 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_streambuf<CharT,Traits>::pubseekoff, \- std::basic_streambuf<CharT,Traits>::pubseekoff,

.SH Synopsis

   pos_type pubseekoff( off_type off, std::ios_base::seekdir dir,      \fB(1)\fP
   std::ios_base::openmode which = ios_base::in | ios_base::out );
   protected:

   virtual pos_type seekoff( off_type off, std::ios_base::seekdir dir, \fB(2)\fP

   std::ios_base::openmode which = ios_base::in | ios_base::out );

   Sets the position indicator of the input and/or output sequence relative to some
   other position.

   1) Calls seekoff(off, dir, which) of the most derived class

   2) The base class version of this function has no effect. The derived classes may
   override this function to allow relative positioning of the position indicator.

.SH Parameters

   off   - relative position to set the position indicator to.
           defines base position to apply the relative offset to. It can be one of the
           following constants:

   dir   - Constant Explanation
           beg      the beginning of a stream
           end      the ending of a stream
           cur      the current position of stream position indicator
           defines which of the input and/or output sequences to affect. It can be one
           or a combination of the following constants:
   which -
           Constant Explanation
           in       affect the input sequence
           out      affect the output sequence

.SH Note

   Not all combinations of parameters may be valid, see the derived versions of seekoff
   for details.

.SH Return value

   1) The return value of seekoff(off, dir, which)

   2) The resulting absolute position as defined by the position indicator. The base
   class version returns pos_type(off_type(-1)).

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   pubseekpos invokes seekpos()
              \fI(public member function)\fP
   seekoff    repositions the file position, using relative addressing
   \fB[virtual]\fP  \fI(virtual protected member function of std::basic_filebuf<CharT,Traits>)\fP
              repositions the next pointer in the input sequence, output sequence, or
   seekoff    both, using relative addressing
   \fB[virtual]\fP  \fI\fI(virtual protected member function\fP of\fP
              std::basic_stringbuf<CharT,Traits,Allocator>)
   seekoff    repositions the next pointer in the input sequence, output sequence, or
   \fB[virtual]\fP  both, using relative addressing
              \fI(virtual protected member function of std::strstreambuf)\fP
