.TH std::experimental::filesystem::create_symlink, 3 "Nov 16 2016" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::filesystem::create_symlink, \- std::experimental::filesystem::create_symlink,

.SH Synopsis

   Defined in header <experimental/filesystem>
   void create_symlink( const path& target, const path& link );
   void create_symlink( const path& target, const path& link,       \fB(1)\fP (filesystem TS)
   error_code& ec );
   void create_directory_symlink( const path& target, const path&
   link );                                                          \fB(2)\fP (filesystem TS)
   void create_directory_symlink( const path& target, const path&
   link, error_code& ec );

   Creates a symbolic link link with its target set to target as if by POSIX symlink():
   the pathname target may be invalid or non-existing.

   Some operating systems require symlink creation to identify that the link is to a
   directory. Portable code should use \fB(2)\fP to create directory symlinks rather than
   \fB(1)\fP, even though there is no distinction on POSIX systems.

.SH Parameters

   target - path to point the symlink to, does not have to exisdt
   link   - path of the new symbolic link
   ec     - out-parameter for error reporting in the non-throwing overload

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   The overload that does not take a error_code& parameter throws filesystem_error on
   underlying OS API errors, constructed with target as the first argument, link as the
   second argument, and the OS error code as the error code argument. std::bad_alloc
   may be thrown if memory allocation fails. The overload taking a error_code&
   parameter sets it to the OS API error code if an OS API call fails, and executes
   ec.clear() if no errors occur. This overload has
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept

.SH Notes

   Some operating systems do not support symbolic links at all or support them only for
   regular files.

   Some file systems do not support symbolic links regardless of the operating system,
   for example the FAT system used on some memory cards and flash drives.

   Like a hard link, a symbolic link allows a file to have multiple logical names. The
   presence of a hard link guarantees the existence of a file, even after the original
   name has been removed. A symbolic link provides no such assurance; in fact, the file
   named by the target argument need not exist when the link is created. A symbolic
   link can cross file system boundaries.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <experimental/filesystem>
 namespace fs = std::experimental::filesystem;

 int main()
 {
     fs::create_directories("sandbox/subdir");
     fs::create_symlink("target", "sandbox/sym1");
     fs::create_directory_symlink("subdir", "sandbox/sym2");

     for(auto it = fs::directory_iterator("sandbox"); it != fs::directory_iterator(); ++it)
         if(is_symlink(it->symlink_status()))
             std::cout << *it << "->" << read_symlink(*it) << '\\n';

     fs::remove_all("sandbox");
 }

.SH Possible output:

 "sandbox/sym1"->"target"
 "sandbox/sym2"->"subdir"

.SH See also

   status           determines file attributes
   symlink_status   determines file attributes, checking the symlink target
                    \fI(function)\fP
   read_symlink     obtains the target of a symbolic link
                    \fI(function)\fP
   create_hard_link creates a hard link
                    \fI(function)\fP

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept
