.TH std::atomic(std::shared_ptr) 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::atomic(std::shared_ptr) \- std::atomic(std::shared_ptr)

.SH Synopsis
   template <class T> struct std::atomic<std::shared_ptr<T>>;  \fI(since C++20)\fP

   The partial template specialization of std::atomic for std::shared_ptr<T> allows
   users to manipulate shared_ptr objects atomically.

   If multiple threads of execution access the same std::shared_ptr object without
   synchronization and any of those accesses uses a non-const member function of
   shared_ptr then a data race will occur unless all such access is performed through
   an instance of std::atomic<std::shared_ptr>> (or, deprecated as of C++20, through
   the standalone functions for atomic access to std::shared_ptr).

   Associated use_count increments are guaranteed to be part of the atomic operation.
   Associated use_count decrements are sequenced after the atomic operation, but are
   not required to be part of it, except for the use_count change when overriding
   expected in a failed CAS. Any associated deletion and deallocation are sequenced
   after the atomic update step and are not part of the atomic operation.

   Note that the control block of a shared_ptr is thread-safe: different non-atomic
   std::shared_ptr objects can be accessed using mutable operations, such as operator=
   or reset, simultaneously by multiple threads, even when these instances are copies,
   and share the same control block internally.

   The type T may be an incomplete type.

.SH Member types

   Member type Definition
   value_type  std::shared_ptr<T>

.SH Member functions

   All non-specialized std::atomic functions are also provided by this specialization,
   and no additional member functions.

atomic<shared_ptr<T>>::atomic

   constexpr atomic() noexcept = default;       \fB(1)\fP
   atomic(std::shared_ptr<T> desired) noexcept; \fB(2)\fP
   atomic(const atomic&) = delete;              \fB(3)\fP

   1) Initializes the underlying shared_ptr<T> to default-constructed value
   2) Initializes the underlying shared_ptr<T> to a copy of desired. As with any
   std::atomic type, initialization is not an atomic operation.
   3) Atomic types are not copy/move constructible

atomic<shared_ptr<T>>::operator=

   void operator=(const atomic&) = delete;              \fB(1)\fP
   void operator=(std::shared_ptr<T> desired) noexcept; \fB(2)\fP

   1) Atomic types are not copy/move assignable
   2) Value assignment, equivalent to store(desired)

atomic<shared_ptr<T>>::is_lock_free

   bool is_lock_free() const noexcept;

   Returns true if the atomic operations on all objects of this type are lock-free,
   false otherwise.

atomic<shared_ptr<T>>::store

   void store(std::shared_ptr<T> desired,
              std::memory_order order = std::memory_order_seq_cst) noexcept;

   Atomically replaces the value of *this with the value of desired as if by
   p.swap(desired) where p is the underlying std::shared_ptr<T>. Memory is ordered
   according to order. The behavior is undefined if order is std::memory_order_consume,
   std::memory_order_acquire, or std::memory_order_acq_rel.

atomic<shared_ptr<T>>::load

   std::shared_ptr<T> load(std::memory_order order = std::memory_order_seq_cst) const
   noexcept;

   Atomically returns a copy of the underlying shared pointer. Memory is ordered
   according to order. The behavior is undefined if order is std::memory_order_release
   or std::memory_order_acq_rel.

atomic<shared_ptr<T>>::operator std::shared_ptr<T>

   operator std::shared_ptr<T>() const noexcept;

   Equivalent to return load();

atomic<shared_ptr<T>>::exchange

   std::shared_ptr<T> exchange(std::shared_ptr<T> desired,
                               std::memory_order order = std::memory_order_seq_cst)
   noexcept;

   Atomically replaces the underlying std::shared_ptr<T> with desired as if by
   p.swap(desired) where p is the underlying std::shared_ptr<T> and returns a copy of
   the value that p had immediately before the swap. Memory is ordered according to
   order. This is an atomic read-modify-write operation.

atomic<shared_ptr<T>>::compare_exchange_weak, compare_exchange_strong

   bool compare_exchange_strong(std::shared_ptr<T>& expected, std::shared_ptr<T>
   desired,                                                                        \fB(1)\fP
                                std::memory_order success, std::memory_order
   failure) noexcept;
   bool compare_exchange_weak(std::shared_ptr<T>& expected, std::shared_ptr<T>
   desired,                                                                        \fB(2)\fP
                              std::memory_order success, std::memory_order
   failure) noexcept;
   bool compare_exchange_strong(std::shared_ptr<T>& expected, std::shared_ptr<T>
   desired,                                                                        \fB(3)\fP
                                std::memory_order order =
   std::memory_order_seq_cst) noexcept;
   bool compare_exchange_weak(std::shared_ptr<T>& expected, std::shared_ptr<T>
   desired,                                                                        \fB(4)\fP
                              std::memory_order order = std::memory_order_seq_cst)
   noexcept;

   1) If the underlying std::shared_ptr<T> stores the same T* as expected and shares
   ownership with it, or if both underlying and expected are empty, assigns from
   desired to the underlying std::shared_ptr<T>, returns true, and orders memory
   according to success, otherwise assigns from the underlying std::shared_ptr<T> to
   expected, returns false, and orders memory according to failure. The behavior is
   undefined if failure is std::memory_order_release or std::memory_order_acq_rel. On
   success, the operation is an atomic read-modify-write operation on *this and
   expected is not accessed after the atomic update. On failure, the operation is an
   atomic load operation on *this and expected is updated with the existing value read
   from the atomic object. This update to expected's use_count is part of this atomic
   operation, although the write itself (and any subsequent deallocation/destruction)
   is not required to be.
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but may also fail spuriously.
   3) Equivalent to: return compare_exchange_strong(expected, desired, order,
   fail_order);, where fail_order is the same as order except that
   std:memory_order_acq_rel is replaced by std::memory_order_acquire and
   std::memory_order_release is replaced by std::memory_order_relaxed.
   4) Equivalent to: return compare_exchange_weak(expected, desired, order,
   fail_order); where fail_order is the same as order except that
   std::memory_order_acq_rel is replaced by std::memory_order_acquire and
   std::memory_order_release is replaced by std::memory_order_relaxed.

.SH Member constants

   The only standard std::atomic member constant is_always_lock_free is also provided
   by this specialization.

atomic<shared_ptr<T>>::is_always_lock_free

   static constexpr bool is_always_lock_free = /*implementation-defined*/;

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   atomic  atomic class template and specializations for bool, integral, and pointer
   \fI(C++11)\fP types
           \fI(class template)\fP 

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
