.TH std::filesystem::create_symlink,std::filesystem::create_directory_symlink 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::filesystem::create_symlink,std::filesystem::create_directory_symlink \- std::filesystem::create_symlink,std::filesystem::create_directory_symlink

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <filesystem>
   void create_symlink( const std::filesystem::path& target,

   const std::filesystem::path& link );
   void create_symlink( const std::filesystem::path& target,          \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   const std::filesystem::path& link,

   std::error_code& ec ) noexcept;
   void create_directory_symlink( const std::filesystem::path&
   target,

   const std::filesystem::path& link );
   void create_directory_symlink( const std::filesystem::path&        \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   target,
   const std::filesystem::path& link,

   std::error_code& ec ) noexcept;

   Creates a symbolic link link with its target set to target as if by POSIX symlink():
   the pathname target may be invalid or non-existing.

   Some operating systems require symlink creation to identify that the link is to a
   directory. Portable code should use \fB(2)\fP to create directory symlinks rather than
   \fB(1)\fP, even though there is no distinction on POSIX systems.

.SH Parameters

   target - path to point the symlink to, does not have to exist
   link   - path of the new symbolic link
   ec     - out-parameter for error reporting in the non-throwing overload

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   The overload that does not take a std::error_code& parameter throws filesystem_error
   on underlying OS API errors, constructed with target as the first path argument,
   link as the second path argument, and the OS error code as the error code argument.
   The overload taking a std::error_code& parameter sets it to the OS API error code if
   an OS API call fails, and executes ec.clear() if no errors occur. Any overload not
   marked noexcept may throw std::bad_alloc if memory allocation fails.

.SH Notes

   Some operating systems do not support symbolic links at all or support them only for
   regular files.

   Some file systems do not support symbolic links regardless of the operating system,
   for example the FAT system used on some memory cards and flash drives.

   Like a hard link, a symbolic link allows a file to have multiple logical names. The
   presence of a hard link guarantees the existence of a file, even after the original
   name has been removed. A symbolic link provides no such assurance; in fact, the file
   named by the target argument need not exist when the link is created. A symbolic
   link can cross file system boundaries.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <filesystem>
 namespace fs = std::filesystem;

 int main()
 {
     fs::create_directories("sandbox/subdir");
     fs::create_symlink("target", "sandbox/sym1");
     fs::create_directory_symlink("subdir", "sandbox/sym2");

     for(auto it = fs::directory_iterator("sandbox"); it != fs::directory_iterator(); ++it)
         if(is_symlink(it->symlink_status()))
             std::cout << *it << "->" << read_symlink(*it) << '\\n';

     fs::remove_all("sandbox");
 }

.SH Possible output:

 "sandbox/sym1"->"target"
 "sandbox/sym2"->"subdir"

.SH See also

   status           determines file attributes
   symlink_status   determines file attributes, checking the symlink target
   \fI(C++17)\fP          \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++17)\fP
   read_symlink     obtains the target of a symbolic link
   \fI(C++17)\fP          \fI(function)\fP
   create_hard_link creates a hard link
   \fI(C++17)\fP          \fI(function)\fP
