.TH std::experimental::bad_any_cast 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::bad_any_cast \- std::experimental::bad_any_cast

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/any>
   class bad_any_cast : public std::bad_cast;  (library fundamentals TS)

   Defines a type of object to be thrown by the value-returning forms of
   std::experimental::any_cast on failure.

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs a new bad_any_cast object
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=     replaces the bad_any_cast object
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   what          returns the explanatory string
                 \fI(public member function)\fP

std::experimental::bad_any_cast::bad_any_cast

   bad_any_cast() noexcept;                            \fB(1)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   bad_any_cast( const bad_any_cast& other ) noexcept; \fB(2)\fP (library fundamentals TS)

   Constructs a new bad_any_cast object with an implementation-defined null-terminated
   byte string which is accessible through what().

   1) Default constructor.
   2) Copy constructor. If *this and other both have dynamic type
   std::experimental::bad_any_cast then std::strcmp(what(), other.what()) == 0.

.SH Parameters

   other - another exception object to copy

std::experimental::bad_any_cast::operator=

   bad_any_cast& operator=( const bad_any_cast& other )       (library fundamentals TS)
   noexcept;

   Assigns the contents with those of other. If *this and other both have dynamic type
   std::experimental::bad_any_cast then std::strcmp(what(), other.what()) == 0 after
   assignment.

.SH Parameters

   other - another exception object to assign with

.SH Return value

   *this

std::experimental::bad_any_cast::what

   virtual const char* what() const noexcept;  (library fundamentals TS)

   Returns the explanatory string.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   Pointer to a null-terminated string with explanatory information. The string is
   suitable for conversion and display as a std::wstring. The pointer is guaranteed to
   be valid at least until the exception object from which it is obtained is destroyed,
   or until a non-const member function (e.g. copy assignment operator) on the
   exception object is called.

.SH Notes

   Implementations are allowed but not required to override what().

Inherited from std::bad_cast

Inherited from std::exception

.SH Member functions

   destructor   destroys the exception object
   \fB[virtual]\fP    \fI(virtual public member function of std::exception)\fP
   what         returns an explanatory string
   \fB[virtual]\fP    \fI(virtual public member function of std::exception)\fP
