.TH std::moneypunct::positive_sign,do_positive_sign,negative_sign,do_negative_sign 3 "2019.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::moneypunct::positive_sign,do_positive_sign,negative_sign,do_negative_sign \- std::moneypunct::positive_sign,do_positive_sign,negative_sign,do_negative_sign

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <locale>
   public:                                       \fB(1)\fP
   string_type positive_sign() const;
   public:                                       \fB(2)\fP
   string_type negative_sign() const;
   protected:                                    \fB(3)\fP
   virtual string_type do_positive_sign() const;
   protected:                                    \fB(4)\fP
   virtual string_type do_negative_sign() const;

   1) Public member function, calls the member function do_positive_sign of the most
   derived class.
   2) Public member function, calls the member function do_negative_sign of the most
   derived class.
   3) Returns the string that is used for formatting of positive monetary values.
   3) Returns the string that is used for formatting of negative monetary values.

   Only the first character of the string returned is the character that appears in the
   pos_format()/neg_format() position indicated by the value sign. The rest of the
   characters appear after the rest of the monetary string.

   In particular, for negative_sign of "-", the formatting may appear as "-1.23 €",
   while for negative_sign of "()" it would appear as "(1.23 €)".

.SH Return value

   The string of type string_type holding the characters to be used as positive or
   negative sign.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <locale>
  
 struct my_punct : std::moneypunct_byname<char, false> {
     my_punct(const char* name) : moneypunct_byname(name) {}
     string_type do_negative_sign() const { return "()"; }
 };
  
 int main()
 {
     std::locale loc("de_DE.utf8");
     std::cout.imbue(loc);
     std::cout << loc.name() << " negative sign is '"
               << std::use_facet<std::moneypunct<char>>(loc).negative_sign()
               << "' for example: " << std::showbase << std::put_money(-1234) << '\\n';
  
     std::locale loc2("ms_MY.utf8");
     std::cout.imbue(loc2);
     std::cout << loc2.name() << " negative sign is '"
               << std::use_facet<std::moneypunct<char>>(loc2).negative_sign()
               << "' for example: " << std::put_money(-1234) << '\\n';
  
     std::cout.imbue(std::locale(std::cout.getloc(), new my_punct("de_DE.utf8")));
     std::cout << "de_DE.utf8 with negative_sign set to \\"()\\": "
               << std::put_money(-1234) << '\\n';
  
 }

.SH Output:

 de_DE.utf8 negative sign is '-' for example: -12,34 €
 ms_MY.utf8 negative sign is '()' for example: (RM12.34)
 de_DE.utf8 with negative_sign set to "()": (12,34 €)

.SH See also

   do_pos_format provides the formatting pattern for currency values
   do_neg_format \fI(virtual protected member function)\fP 
   \fB[virtual]\fP
