.TH std::experimental::basic_string_view::compare 3 "Apr  2 2017" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::basic_string_view::compare \- std::experimental::basic_string_view::compare

.SH Synopsis
   constexpr int compare(basic_string_view v) const;      \fB(1)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   constexpr int compare(size_type pos1, size_type
   count1,                                                \fB(2)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   basic_string_view v) const
   constexpr int compare(size_type pos1, size_type
   count1, basic_string_view v,                           \fB(3)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   size_type pos2, size_type count2) const;
   constexpr int compare(const CharT* s) const;           \fB(4)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   constexpr int compare(size_type pos1, size_type
   count1,                                                \fB(5)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   const CharT* s) const;
   constexpr int compare(size_type pos1, size_type
   count1,                                                \fB(6)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   const CharT* s, size_type count2) const;

   Compares two character sequences.

   1) The length rlen of the sequences to compare is the smaller of size() and
   v.size(). The function compares the two views by calling traits::compare(data(),
   v.data(), rlen), and returns a value according to the following table:

                         Condition                             Result      Return value
   Traits::compare(data(), v.data(), rlen) < 0            this is less     <0
                                                          than v
                                                size() <  this is less     <0
                                                v.size()  than v
   Traits::compare(data(), v.data(), rlen) == 0 size() == this is equal to 0
                                                v.size()  v
                                                size() >  this is greater  >0
                                                v.size()  than v
   Traits::compare(data(), v.data(), rlen) > 0            this is greater  >0
                                                          than v

   2) Equivalent to substr(pos1, count1).compare(v).
   3) Equivalent to substr(pos1, count1).compare(v.substr(pos2, count2)).
   4) Equivalent to compare(basic_string_view(s)).
   5) Equivalent to substr(pos1, count1).compare(basic_string_view(s)).
   6) Equivalent to substr(pos1, count1).compare(basic_string_view(s, count2)).

.SH Parameters

   v      - view to compare
   s      - pointer to the character string to compare to
   count1 - number of characters of this view to compare
   pos1   - position of the first character in this view to compare
   count2 - number of characters of the given view to compare
   pos2   - position of the first character of the given view to compare

.SH Return value

   negative value if this view is less than the other character sequence, zero if the
   both character sequences are equal, positive value if this view is greater than the
   other character sequence.

.SH Exceptions

   1)
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept

.SH Complexity

   1) Linear in the number of characters compared.

.SH See also

   operator==
   operator!=
   operator<  lexicographically compares two views
   operator>  \fI(function template)\fP
   operator<=
   operator>=

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept
