.TH std::basic_string::operator= 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_string::operator= \- std::basic_string::operator=

.SH Synopsis
   basic_string& operator=( const basic_string& str );                \fB(1)\fP
   basic_string& operator=( basic_string&& str );                     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   basic_string& operator=( const CharT* s );                         \fB(3)\fP
   basic_string& operator=( CharT ch );                               \fB(4)\fP
   basic_string& operator=( std::initializer_list<CharT> ilist );     \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   basic_string& operator=( std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>     \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   sv);

   Replaces the contents of the string.

   1) Replaces the contents with a copy of str. If *this and str are the same object,
   this function has no effect.

   2) Replaces the contents with those of str using move semantics. Leaves str   (until
   in valid, but unspecified state. If *this and str are the same object, the    C++17)
   function has no effect.
   2) Replaces the contents with those of str using move semantics. str is in a
   valid but unspecified state afterwards. If
   std::allocator_traits<Allocator>::propagate_on_container_move_assignment() is
   true, the target allocator is replaced by a copy of the source allocator. If  (since
   it is false and the source and the target allocators do not compare equal,    C++17)
   the target cannot take ownership of the source memory and must assign each
   character individually, allocating additional memory using its own allocator
   as needed. Unlike other container move assignments, references, pointers, and
   iterators to str may be invalidated.

   3) Replaces the contents with those of null-terminated character string pointed to
   by s as if by *this = basic_string(s), which involves a call to Traits::length(s).
   4) Replaces the contents with character ch as if by *this = basic_string(1,c)
   5) Replaces the contents with those of the initializer list ilist as if by *this =
   basic_string(ilist)
   6) Replaces the contents with those of the string view sv as if by assign(sv)

.SH Parameters

   ch   - value to initialize characters of the string with
   str  - string to be used as source to initialize the string with
   s    - pointer to a null-terminated character string
          to use as source to initialize the string with
   init - std::initializer_list to initialize the string with
   sv   - std::basic_string_view to initialize the string with

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Complexity

   1) linear in size of str

   2) linear in the size of this (formally, each CharT has to be destroyed). If
   allocators do not compare equal and do not propagate, then also linear in the size
   of str (copy must be made)

   3) linear in size of s

   4) constant.

   5) linear in size of init

.SH Exceptions

2)                                                                                       (since
noexcept specification:                                                                  C++11)
noexcept                                                                                 (until
                                                                                         C++17)
2)
noexcept specification:                                                                  (since
noexcept(std::allocator_traits<Allocator>::propagate_on_container_move_assignment::value C++17)
|| std::allocator_traits<Allocator>::is_always_equal::value)

   If the operation would result in size() > max_size(), throws std::length_error.

   If an exception is thrown for any reason, this function has no effect  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   \fI(strong exception guarantee)\fP.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to            Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 2063 C++11      non-normative note stated that swap is a    corrected to support
                       valid implementation of move assignment     allocators

.SH See also

   constructor   constructs a basic_string
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   assign        assign characters to a string
                 \fI(public member function)\fP

   Categories:

     * unconditionally noexcept
     * conditionally noexcept
     * Todo no example

   Hidden categories:

     * Pages with unreviewed unconditional noexcept template
     * Pages with unreviewed noexcept template
     * Pages with unreviewed conditional noexcept template
