.TH std::chrono::zoned_time 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::zoned_time \- std::chrono::zoned_time

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <chrono>
   template <

   class Duration,                                    \fI(since C++20)\fP
   class TimeZonePtr = const std::chrono::time_zone*

   > class zoned_time;

   The class zoned_time represents a logical pairing of a time zone and a
   std::chrono::time_point whose resolution is Duration.

   An invariant of zoned_time is that it always refers to a valid time zone and
   represents an existing and unambiguous time point in that time zone. Consistent with
   this invariant, zoned_time has no move constructor or move assignment operator;
   attempts to move a zoned_time will perform a copy.

   The program is ill-formed if Duration is not a specialization of
   std::chrono::duration.

   The template parameter TimeZonePtr allows users to supply their own time zone
   pointer types and further customize the behavior of zoned_time via
   std::chrono::zoned_traits. Custom time zone types need not support all the
   operations supported by std::chrono::time_zone, only those used by the functions
   actually called on the zoned_time.

   TimeZonePtr must be MoveConstructible. Move-only TimeZonePtrs are allowed but
   difficult to use, as the zoned_time will be immovable and it is not possible to
   access the stored TimeZonePtr.

.SH Member types

   Member type Definition
   duration    std::common_type_t<Duration, std::chrono::seconds>

.SH Member functions

   constructor         constructs a zoned_time
                       \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=           assigns value to a zoned_time
                       \fI(public member function)\fP
   get_time_zone       obtains a copy of the time zone pointer
                       \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator local_time obtains the stored time point as a local_time
   get_local_time      \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator sys_time   obtains the stored time point as a sys_time
   get_sys_time        \fI(public member function)\fP
   get_info            obtain information about the time zone at the stored time point
                       \fI(public member function)\fP

  Nonmember functions

   operator== compares two zoned_time objects
   operator!= \fI(function template)\fP
   operator<< outputs a zoned_time into a stream
              \fI(function template)\fP
   to_stream  outputs a zoned_time into a stream according to the provided format
              \fI(function template)\fP

  Deduction guides
