.TH std::mutex::try_lock 3 "Nov 25 2015" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::mutex::try_lock \- std::mutex::try_lock

.SH Synopsis
   bool try_lock();  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Tries to lock the mutex. Returns immediately. On successful lock acquisition returns
   true, otherwise returns false.

   This function is allowed to fail spuriously and return false even if the mutex is
   not currently locked by any other thread.

   If try_lock is called by a thread that already owns the mutex, the behavior is
   undefined.

   Prior unlock() operation on the same mutex synchronizes-with (as defined in
   std::memory_order) this operation if it returns true. Note that prior lock() does
   not synchronize with this operation if it returns false.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   true if the lock was acquired successfully, otherwise false.

.SH Exceptions

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Example

   
   
// Run this code

 #include <chrono>
 #include <mutex>
 #include <thread>
 #include <iostream> // std::cout
  
 std::chrono::milliseconds interval(100);
  
 std::mutex mutex;
 int job_shared = 0; // both threads can modify 'job_shared',
     // mutex will protect this variable
  
 int job_exclusive = 0; // only one thread can modify 'job_exclusive'
     // no protection needed
  
 // this thread can modify both 'job_shared' and 'job_exclusive'
 void job_1()
 {
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(interval); // let 'job_2' take a lock
  
     while (true) {
         // try to lock mutex to modify 'job_shared'
         if (mutex.try_lock()) {
             std::cout << "job shared (" << job_shared << ")\\n";
             mutex.unlock();
             return;
         } else {
             // can't get lock to modify 'job_shared'
             // but there is some other work to do
             ++job_exclusive;
             std::cout << "job exclusive (" << job_exclusive << ")\\n";
             std::this_thread::sleep_for(interval);
         }
     }
 }
  
 // this thread can modify only 'job_shared'
 void job_2()
 {
     mutex.lock();
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(5 * interval);
     ++job_shared;
     mutex.unlock();
 }
  
 int main()
 {
     std::thread thread_1(job_1);
     std::thread thread_2(job_2);
  
     thread_1.join();
     thread_2.join();
 }

.SH Possible output:

 job exclusive \fB(1)\fP
 job exclusive \fB(2)\fP
 job exclusive \fB(3)\fP
 job exclusive \fB(4)\fP
 job shared \fB(1)\fP

.SH See also

   lock   locks the mutex, blocks if the mutex is not available
          \fI(public member function)\fP 
   unlock unlocks the mutex
          \fI(public member function)\fP 
