.TH std::ranges::in_found_result 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::in_found_result \- std::ranges::in_found_result

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class I >            \fI(since C++20)\fP
   struct in_found_result;

   ranges::in_found_result is a class template that provides a way to store an iterator
   and a boolean flag as a single unit.

   This class template has no base classes or declared members other than those shown
   below. Thus it is suitable for use with structured bindings.

   All special member functions of this class template are implicitly declared, which
   makes specializations be aggregate classes, and propagate triviality,
   potentially-throwing-ness, and constexpr-ness of corresponding operations on data
   members.

.SH Template parameters

   I - the type of the iterator that the ranges::in_found_result stores.

   Data members

   Member name Definition
               a value (that is supposed to be an iterator) of type I. It is declared
   in          with [[no_unique_address]] attribute.
               \fI(public member object)\fP
               a boolean flag (that may show whether an appropriate range can be found)
   found       of type bool.
               \fI(public member object)\fP

.SH Member functions

std::ranges::in_found_result::operator in_found_result<I2>

   template<class I2>

   requires std::convertible_to<const I&, I2>        \fB(1)\fP

   constexpr operator in_found_result<I2>() const &;
   template<class I2>

   requires std::convertible_to<I, I2>               \fB(2)\fP

   constexpr operator in_found_result<I2>() &&;

   Converts *this to the result by constructing every data member of the result from
   the corresponding member of *this.

   1) Equivalent to return {in, found};.
   2) Equivalent to return {std::move(in), found};.

.SH Standard library

   The following standard library functions use ranges::in_found_result as the return
   type:

         Algorithm functions
   ranges::next_permutation generates the next greater lexicographic permutation of a
   (C++20)                  range of elements
                            (niebloid)
   ranges::prev_permutation generates the next smaller lexicographic permutation of a
   (C++20)                  range of elements
                            (niebloid)

.SH Synopsis

 namespace std::ranges
 {
     template<class I>
     struct in_found_result
     {
         [[no_unique_address]] I in;
         bool found;

         template<class I2>
         requires std::convertible_to<const I&, I2>
         constexpr operator in_found_result<I2>() const &
         {
             return {in, found};
         }

         template<class I2>
         requires std::convertible_to<I, I2>
         constexpr operator in_found_result<I2>() &&
         {
             return {std::move(in), found};
         }
     };
 }

.SH Notes

   Each standard library algorithm that uses this family of return types declares a new
   alias type, e.g. using merge_result = in_in_out_result<I1, I2, O>;.

   The names for such aliases are formed by adding the suffix "_result" to the
   algorithm's name. So, the return type of std::ranges::merge can be named as
   std::ranges::merge_result.

   Unlike std::pair and std::tuple, this class template has data members of meaningful
   names.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <iterator>
 #include <ranges>

 int main()
 {
     int v[] {1, 2, 3};

     const auto result = std::ranges::next_permutation(v);

     std::ranges::for_each(std::cbegin(v), result.in, [](int e) {std::cout << e << ' ';});

     std::cout << std::boolalpha << "\\n" "result.found: " << result.found << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 1 3 2
 result.found = true

.SH See also

   pair    implements binary tuple, i.e. a pair of values
           \fI(class template)\fP
   tuple   implements fixed size container, which holds elements of possibly different
   \fI(C++11)\fP types
           \fI(class template)\fP
