.TH std::formatter,std::chrono::local_time_format 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::formatter,std::chrono::local_time_format \- std::formatter,std::chrono::local_time_format

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <chrono>
   template<class Duration, class CharT>                          \fB(1)\fP
   struct formatter<std::chrono::local_time<Duration>, CharT>;
   template<class Duration>

   struct /*local-time-format-t*/ { // exposition only
   std::chrono::local_time<Duration> time; // exposition only
   const std::string* abbrev; // exposition only
   const std::chrono::seconds* offset; // exposition only

   };
   template<class Duration>                                       \fB(2)\fP

   /*local-time-format-t*/<Duration>
   local_time_format(const std::chrono::local_time<Duration>& tp,
   const std::string* abbrev = nullptr,

   const std::chrono::seconds* offset_sec = nullptr);
   template<class Duration, class CharT>
   struct formatter</*local-time-format-t*/<Duration>, CharT>;

   Specialization of std::formatter that defines formatting rules for a
   std::chrono::local_time.

   1) If %Z, %z or a modified variant of %z is used, a std::format_error is thrown.
   2) The local_time_format function returns a value of unspecified type that holds the
   local time, offset, and time zone abbreviation.
   When an object f of this unspecified type is formatted, if %Z is used, it is
   replaced with *f.abbrev widened to CharT if f.abbrev is not null; otherwise a
   std::format_error is thrown. If %z or a modified variant thereof is used, an offset
   of *f.offset_sec will be formatted if f.offset_sec is not null; otherwise a
   std::format_error is thrown.

   std::formatter is usually not directly accessed, but is used through formatting
   functions.

  Format specification

   The format specification has the form

   fill-and-align(optional) width(optional) precision(optional) L(optional)
   chrono-spec(optional)

   fill-and-align, width, and precision have the same meaning as in standard format
   specification. precision is valid only for std::chrono::duration types where the
   representation type Rep is a floating-point type, otherwise std::format_error is
   thrown.

   The locale used for formatting is determined as follows:

     * the default "C" locale if L is not present in the format specification,
     * otherwise, the locale denoted by the std::locale passed to the formatting
       function, if any,
     * otherwise (L is present but no std::locale is passed to the formatting
       function), the global locale.

   The chrono-spec consists of one or more conversion specifiers and ordinary
   characters (other than {, } and %). A chrono-spec must start with a conversion
   specifier. All ordinary characters are written to the output without modification.
   Each unmodified conversion specifier begins with a % character followed by a
   character that determines the behavior of the specifier. Some conversion specifiers
   have a modified form in which an E or O modifier character is inserted after the %
   character. Each conversion specifier is replaced by appropriate characters in the
   output as described below.

   If the chrono-spec is empty, the chrono object is formatted as if by streaming it to
   an object os of type std::stringstream with the formatting locale (one of
   std::locale::classic(), the passed std::locale object, and std::locale::global())
   imbued and copying os.str() to the output buffer with additional padding and
   adjustments as per format specifiers.

   The following format specifiers are available:

   Conversion                               Explanation
   specifier
       %%     Writes a literal % character.
       %n     Writes a newline character.
       %t     Writes a horizontal tab character.
                                           Year
              Writes the year divided by 100 using floored division. If the result is
       %C     a single decimal digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %EC
              The modified command %EC writes the locale's alternative representation
              of the century.
              Writes the last two decimal digits of the year. If the result is a
              single digit it is prefixed by 0.
       %y
      %Oy     The modified command %Oy writes the locale's alternative representation.
      %Ey
              The modified command %Ey writes the locale's alternative representation
              of offset from %EC (year only).
              Writes the year as a decimal number. If the result is less than four
       %Y     digits it is left-padded with 0 to four digits.
      %EY
              The modified command %EY writes the locale's alternative full year
              representation.
                                          Month
       %b     Writes the locale's abbreviated month name.
       %h
       %B     Writes the locale's full month name.
              Writes the month as a decimal number (January is 01). If the result is a
       %m     single digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %Om
              The modified command %Om writes the locale's alternative representation.
                                           Day
              Writes the day of month as a decimal number. If the result is a single
       %d     decimal digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %Od
              The modified command %Od writes the locale's alternative representation.
              Writes the day of month as a decimal number. If the result is a single
       %e     decimal digit, it is prefixed with a space.
      %Oe
              The modified command %Oe writes the locale's alternative representation.
                                     Day of the week
       %a     Writes the locale's abbreviated weekday name.
       %A     Writes the locale's full weekday name.
       %u     Writes the ISO weekday as a decimal number (1-7), where Monday is 1.
      %Ou
              The modified command %Ou writes the locale's alternative representation.
       %w     Writes the weekday as a decimal number (0-6), where Sunday is 0.
      %Ow
              The modified command %Ow writes the locale's alternative representation.
                                 ISO 8601 week-based year
   In ISO 8601 weeks begin with Monday and the first week of the year must satisfy the
   following requirements:

     * Includes January 4
     * Includes first Thursday of the year
       %g     Writes the last two decimal digits of the ISO 8601 week-based year. If
              the result is a single digit it is prefixed by 0.
       %G     Writes the ISO 8601 week-based year as a decimal number. If the result
              is less than four digits it is left-padded with 0 to four digits.
              Writes the ISO 8601 week of the year as a decimal number. If the result
       %V     is a single digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %OV
              The modified command %OV writes the locale's alternative representation.
                                   Week/day of the year
              Writes the day of the year as a decimal number (January 1 is 001). If
       %j     the result is less than three digits, it is left-padded with 0 to three
              digits.
              Writes the week number of the year as a decimal number. The first Sunday
              of the year is the first day of week 01. Days of the same year prior to
       %U     that are in week 00. If the result is a single digit, it is prefixed
      %OU     with 0.

              The modified command %OU writes the locale's alternative representation.
              Writes the week number of the year as a decimal number. The first Monday
              of the year is the first day of week 01. Days of the same year prior to
       %W     that are in week 00. If the result is a single digit, it is prefixed
      %OW     with 0.

              The modified command %OW writes the locale's alternative representation.
                                           Date
       %D     Equivalent to "%m/%d/%y".
       %F     Equivalent to "%Y-%m-%d".
              Writes the locale's date representation.
       %x
      %Ex     The modified command %Ex produces the locale's alternate date
              representation.
                                       Time of day
              Writes the hour (24-hour clock) as a decimal number. If the result is a
       %H     single digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %OH
              The modified command %OH writes the locale's alternative representation.
              Writes the hour (12-hour clock) as a decimal number. If the result is a
       %I     single digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %OI
              The modified command %OI writes the locale's alternative representation.
              Writes the minute as a decimal number. If the result is a single digit,
       %M     it is prefixed with 0.
      %OM
              The modified command %OM writes the locale's alternative representation.
              Writes the second as a decimal number. If the number of seconds is less
              than 10, the result is prefixed with 0.

              If the precision of the input cannot be exactly represented with
       %S     seconds, then the format is a decimal floating-point number with a fixed
      %OS     format and a precision matching that of the precision of the input (or
              to a microseconds precision if the conversion to floating-point decimal
              seconds cannot be made within 18 fractional digits). The character for
              the decimal point is localized according to the locale.

              The modified command %OS writes the locale's alternative representation.
       %p     Writes the locale's equivalent of the AM/PM designations associated with
              a 12-hour clock.
       %R     Equivalent to "%H:%M".
       %T     Equivalent to "%H:%M:%S".
       %r     Writes the locale's 12-hour clock time.
              Writes the locale's time representation.
       %X
      %EX     The modified command %EX writes the locale's alternate time
              representation.
                                        Time zone
              Writes the offset from UTC in the ISO 8601 format. For example -0430
       %z     refers to 4 hours 30 minutes behind UTC. If the offset is zero, +0000 is
      %Ez     used.
      %Oz
              The modified commands %Ez and %Oz insert a : between the hours and
              minutes (e.g., -04:30).
       %Z     Writes the time zone abbreviation.
.SH Miscellaneous
              Writes the locale's date and time representation.
       %c
      %Ec     The modified command %Ec writes the locale's alternative date and time
              representation.

   The following specifiers are recognized, but will cause std::format_error to be
   thrown:

   Conversion                               Explanation
   specifier
                                      Duration count
       %Q     Writes the count of ticks of the duration, i.e. the value obtained via
              count().
       %q     Writes the unit suffix of the duration, as specified in operator<<().

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   format  stores formatted representation of the arguments in a new string
   (C++20) \fI(function template)\fP
