.TH std::reverse 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::reverse \- std::reverse

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class BidirIt >                                              \fI(until C++20)\fP
   void reverse( BidirIt first, BidirIt last );
   template< class BidirIt >                                              \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr void reverse( BidirIt first, BidirIt last );         \fB(1)\fP
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class BidirIt >
   void reverse( ExecutionPolicy&& policy, BidirIt first, BidirIt     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   last );

   1) Reverses the order of the elements in the range [first, last)
   Behaves as if applying std::iter_swap to every pair of iterators first+i, (last-i) -
   1 for each non-negative i < (last-first)/2
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but executed according to policy. This overload does not participate
   in overload resolution unless
   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>>
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::remove_cvref_t<ExecutionPolicy>>
   \fI(since C++20)\fP is true.

.SH Parameters

   first, last    -    the range of elements to reverse
   policy         -    the execution policy to use. See execution policy for details.
.SH Type requirements
   -
   BidirIt must meet the requirements of ValueSwappable and
   LegacyBidirectionalIterator.

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   The overload with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy reports errors as
   follows:

     * If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception
       and ExecutionPolicy is one of the standard policies, std::terminate is called.
       For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.
     * If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

.SH Possible implementation

   See also the implementations in libstdc++ and libc++.

   template<class BidirIt>
   void reverse(BidirIt first, BidirIt last)
   {
       while ((first != last) && (first != --last)) {
           std::iter_swap(first++, last);
       }
   }

.SH Complexity

   Exactly (last - first)/2 swaps.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <vector>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <iterator>
 #include <algorithm>

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> v{1,2,3};
     std::reverse(std::begin(v), std::end(v));
     for(auto e : v) std::cout << e;
     std::cout << '\\n';

     int a[] = {4, 5, 6, 7};
     std::reverse(std::begin(a), std::end(a));
     for(auto e : a) std::cout << e;
 }

.SH Output:

 321
 7654

.SH See also

   reverse_copy creates a copy of a range that is reversed
                \fI(function template)\fP
