.TH std::ranges::fill 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::fill \- std::ranges::fill

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   Call signature
   template< class T, std::output_iterator<const T&> O,
   std::sentinel_for<O> S >                                           \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr O fill( O first, S last, const T& value );
   template< class T, ranges::output_range<const T&> R >
   constexpr ranges::borrowed_iterator_t<R> fill( R&& r, const T&     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   value );

   1) Assigns the given value to the elements in the range [first, last).
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but uses r as the source range, as if using ranges::begin(r) as
   first and ranges::end(r) as last.

   The function-like entities described on this page are niebloids, that is:

     * Explicit template argument lists may not be specified when calling any of them.
     * None of them is visible to argument-dependent lookup.
     * When one of them is found by normal unqualified lookup for the name to the left
       of the function-call operator, it inhibits argument-dependent lookup.

   In practice, they may be implemented as function objects, or with special compiler
   extensions.

.SH Parameters

   first, last - the range of elements to modify
   r           - the range of elements to modify
   value       - the value to be assigned

.SH Return value

   An output iterator that compares equal to last.

.SH Complexity

   Exactly last - first assignments.

.SH Possible implementation

   struct fill_fn {
     template< class T, std::output_iterator<const T&> O, std::sentinel_for<O> S >
     constexpr O operator()( O first, S last, const T& value ) const
     {
         while (first != last) {
             *first++ = value;
         }

         return first;
     }

     template< class T, ranges::output_range<const T&> R >
     constexpr ranges::borrowed_iterator_t<R> operator()( R&& r, const T& value ) const
     {
       return (*this)(ranges::begin(r), ranges::end(r), value);
     }
   };

.SH Example

   The following code uses fill() to set all of the elements of a vector of ints to -1:


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <vector>
 #include <iostream>

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> v{0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9};

     namespace ranges = std::ranges;
     ranges::fill(v.begin(), v.end(), -1);

     for (auto elem : v) {
         std::cout << elem << " ";
     }
     std::cout << "\\n";

     ranges::fill(v, 10);

     for (auto elem : v) {
         std::cout << elem << " ";
     }
     std::cout << "\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1
 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10

.SH See also

   ranges::fill_n    assigns a value to a number of elements
   (C++20)           (niebloid)
   ranges::copy
   ranges::copy_if   copies a range of elements to a new location
   (C++20)           (niebloid)
   (C++20)
   ranges::generate  saves the result of a function in a range
   (C++20)           (niebloid)
   ranges::transform applies a function to a range of elements
   (C++20)           (niebloid)
   fill              copy-assigns the given value to every element in a range
                     \fI(function template)\fP
