.TH std::is_destructible,std::is_trivially_destructible,std::is_nothrow_destructible 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::is_destructible,std::is_trivially_destructible,std::is_nothrow_destructible \- std::is_destructible,std::is_trivially_destructible,std::is_nothrow_destructible

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <type_traits>
   template< class T >               \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   struct is_destructible;
   template< class T >               \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   struct is_trivially_destructible;
   template< class T >               \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   struct is_nothrow_destructible;

   1) If T is a reference type, provides the member constant value equal to true.

   If T is (possibly cv-qualified) void, a function type, or an array of unknown bound,
   value equals false.

   If T is an object type, then, for the type U equal to
   std::remove_all_extents<T>::type, if the expression std::declval<U&>().~U() is
   well-formed in unevaluated context, value equals true. Otherwise, value equals
   false.

   2) same as \fB(1)\fP and additionally std::remove_all_extents<T>::type is either a
   non-class type or a class type with a trivial destructor.

   3) same as \fB(1)\fP, but the destructor is noexcept.

   T shall be a complete type, (possibly cv-qualified) void, or an array of unknown
   bound. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

   If an instantiation of a template above depends, directly or indirectly, on an
   incomplete type, and that instantiation could yield a different result if that type
   were hypothetically completed, the behavior is undefined.

   The behavior of a program that adds specializations for any of the templates
   described on this page is undefined.

  Helper variable templates

   template< class T >                                                    \fI(since C++17)\fP
   inline constexpr bool is_destructible_v = is_destructible<T>::value;
   template< class T >
   inline constexpr bool is_trivially_destructible_v =                    \fI(since C++17)\fP
   is_trivially_destructible<T>::value;
   template< class T >
   inline constexpr bool is_nothrow_destructible_v =                      \fI(since C++17)\fP
   is_nothrow_destructible<T>::value;

Inherited from std::integral_constant

.SH Member constants

   value    true if T is destructible, false otherwise
   \fB[static]\fP \fI(public static member constant)\fP

.SH Member functions

   operator bool converts the object to bool, returns value
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator()    returns value
   \fI(C++14)\fP       \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Member types

   Type       Definition
   value_type bool
   type       std::integral_constant<bool, value>

.SH Notes

   Because the C++ program terminates if a destructor throws an exception during stack
   unwinding (which usually cannot be predicted), all practical destructors are
   non-throwing even if they are not declared noexcept. All destructors found in the
   C++ standard library are non-throwing.

   Storage occupied by trivially destructible objects may be reused without calling the
   destructor.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <type_traits>
 struct Foo {
    std::string str;
    ~Foo() noexcept {};
 };
 struct Bar {
     ~Bar() = default;
 };
 int main() {
     std::cout << std::boolalpha
               << "std::string is destructible? "
               << std::is_destructible<std::string>::value << '\\n'
               << "Foo is trivially destructible? "
               << std::is_trivially_destructible_v<Foo> << '\\n'
               << "Foo is nothrow destructible? "
               << std::is_nothrow_destructible<Foo>() << '\\n'
               << "Bar is trivially destructible? "
               << std::is_trivially_destructible<Bar>{} << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 std::string is destructible? true
 Foo is trivially destructible? false
 Foo is nothrow destructible? true
 Bar is trivially destructible? true

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to              Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 2049 C++11      the specification was incompletable because of  made complete
                       the imaginary wrapping struct

.SH See also

   is_constructible
   is_trivially_constructible
   is_nothrow_constructible   checks if a type has a constructor for specific arguments
   \fI(C++11)\fP                    \fI(class template)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   has_virtual_destructor     checks if a type has a virtual destructor
   \fI(C++11)\fP                    \fI(class template)\fP
