.TH std::shared_timed_mutex::try_lock_shared_until 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::shared_timed_mutex::try_lock_shared_until \- std::shared_timed_mutex::try_lock_shared_until

.SH Synopsis
   template< class Clock, class Duration >
   bool try_lock_shared_until( const                                      \fI(since C++14)\fP
   std::chrono::time_point<Clock,Duration>& timeout_time );

   Tries to lock the mutex in shared mode. Blocks until specified timeout_time has been
   reached or the lock is acquired, whichever comes first. On successful lock
   acquisition returns true, otherwise returns false.

   If timeout_time has already passed, this function behaves like try_lock_shared().

   Clock must meet the Clock requirements.
   The program is ill-formed if std::chrono::is_clock_v<Clock> is false.
   \fI(since C++20)\fP

   The standard recommends that the clock tied to timeout_time be used, in which case
   adjustments of the clock may be taken into account. Thus, the duration of the block
   might be more or less than timeout_time - Clock::now() at the time of the call,
   depending on the direction of the adjustment and whether it is honored by the
   implementation. The function also may block until after timeout_time has been
   reached due to process scheduling or resource contention delays.

   As with try_lock_shared(), this function is allowed to fail spuriously and return
   false even if the mutex was not locked by any other thread at some point before
   timeout_time.

   Prior unlock() operation on the same mutex synchronizes-with (as defined in
   std::memory_order) this operation if it returns true.

   If try_lock_shared_until is called by a thread that already owns the mutex in any
   mode (shared or exclusive), the behavior is undefined.

.SH Parameters

   timeout_time - maximum time point to block until

.SH Return value

   true if the shared lock ownership was acquired successfully, otherwise false.

.SH Exceptions

   Any exception thrown by clock, time_point, or duration during the execution (clocks,
   time points, and durations provided by the standard library never throw).

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

                       tries to lock the mutex, returns if the mutex has been
   try_lock_until      unavailable until specified time point has been reached
                       \fI(public member function)\fP
                       tries to lock the mutex for shared ownership, returns if the
   try_lock_shared     mutex is not available
                       \fI(public member function)\fP
                       tries to lock the mutex for shared ownership, returns if the
   try_lock_shared_for mutex has been
                       unavailable for the specified timeout duration
                       \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
