.TH std::experimental::propagate_const::operator= 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::propagate_const::operator= \- std::experimental::propagate_const::operator=

.SH Synopsis
   constexpr propagate_const& operator=(               \fB(1)\fP (library fundamentals TS v2)
   propagate_const&& p ) = default;
   template< class U >
   constexpr propagate_const& operator=(               \fB(2)\fP (library fundamentals TS v2)
   propagate_const<U>&& pu );
   template< class U >                                 \fB(3)\fP (library fundamentals TS v2)
   constexpr propagate_const& operator=( U&& u );
   propagate_const& operator=( const propagate_const&  \fB(4)\fP (library fundamentals TS v2)
   ) = delete;

   Let t_ designate the private data member that is the wrapped pointer-like object.

   1) Explicitly defaulted move assignment operator that move assigns this->t_ from
   p.t_.
   2) Assigns std::move(pu.t_) to this->t_.
   This overload participates in overload resolution only if U is implicitly
   convertible to T.
   3) Assigns std::forward<U>(u) to this->t_.
   This overload participates in overload resolution only if U is implicitly
   convertible to T and std::decay_t<U> is not a specialization of propagate_const.
   4) Copy assignment operator is explicitly deleted. propagate_const is non-copyable.

.SH Parameters

   p  - another propagate_const object to move from
   pu - another propagate_const object of a different specialization to move from
   u  - another object to assign to the contained pointer

.SH Return value

   *this.
