.TH std::chrono::format 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::format \- std::chrono::format

.SH Synopsis
   template< class CharT, class Streamable>
   std::basic_string<CharT> format(const CharT* fmt, const            \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   Streamable& s);
   template<class CharT, class Streamable>
   std::basic_string<CharT> format(const std::locale& loc, const      \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   CharT* fmt, const Streamable& s);
   template<class CharT, class Traits, class Alloc, class Streamable>

   std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, Alloc> format(const               \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, Alloc>& fmt,

   const Streamable& s);
   template<class CharT, class Traits, class Alloc, class Streamable>

   std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, Alloc> format(const std::locale&
   loc,                                                               \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   const std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, Alloc>& fmt,

   const Streamable& s);

   Formats the streamable object s using the format string fmt and the locale loc (if
   provided).

   These function templates behave as if they

     * construct a std::basic_ostringstream<CharT, Traits, Alloc> os (where Traits is
       std::char_traits<CharT> and Alloc is std::allocator<CharT> for (1,2));
     * execute os.exceptions(std::ios_base::failbit|std::ios_base::badbit);
     * call os.imbue(loc) (for overloads (2,4) only);
     * call to_stream(os, fmt, s) (for (1,2)) or to_stream(os, fmt.c_str(), s) (for
       (3,4)), where to_stream is called unqualified to enable argument-dependent
       lookup;
     * then return os.str().

   1-2) These overloads only participate in overload resolution if
   to_stream(std::declval<std::basic_ostream<CharT>&>(), fmt, s) is a valid expression.
   3-4) These overloads only participate in overload resolution if
   to_stream(std::declval<std::basic_ostringstream<CharT, Traits, Alloc>&>(),
   fmt.c_str(), s) is a valid expression.

  Format string

   The format string consists of zero or more conversion specifiers and ordinary
   characters. All ordinary characters, excluding the terminating null character, are
   written into the output stream without modification. Each unmodified conversion
   specifier begins with a % character followed by a character that determines the
   behavior of the specifier. Some conversion specifiers have a modified form in which
   an E or O modifier character is inserted after the % character. Each conversion
   specifier is replaced by appropriate characters in the output as described below.

   A character sequence in the format string that begins with a % but does not match
   one of the format specifiers below is interpreted as ordinary characters.

   The following format specifiers are available:

   Conversion                               Explanation
   specifier
       %%     Writes a literal % character.
       %n     Writes a newline character.
       %t     Writes a horizontal tab character.
                                           Year
              Writes the year divided by 100 using floored division. If the result is
       %C     a single decimal digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %EC
              The modified command %EC writes the locale's alternative representation
              of the century.
       %y     Writes the last two decimal digits of the year. If the result is a
              single digit it is prefixed by 0.
       %Y     Writes the year as a decimal number. If the result is less than four
              digits it is left-padded with 0 to four digits.
                                          Month
       %b     Writes the locale's abbreviated month name.
       %h
       %B     Writes the locale's full month name.
              Writes the month as a decimal number (January is 01). If the result is a
       %m     single digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %Om
              The modified command %Om writes the locale's alternative representation.
                                           Day
              Writes the day of month as a decimal number. If the result is a single
       %d     decimal digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %Od
              The modified command %Od writes the locale's alternative representation.
              Writes the day of month as a decimal number. If the result is a single
       %e     decimal digit, it is prefixed with a space.
      %Oe
              The modified command %Oe writes the locale's alternative representation.
                                     Day of the week
       %a     Writes the locale's abbreviated weekday name.
       %A     Writes the locale's full weekday name.
       %u     Writes the ISO weekday as a decimal number (1-7), where Monday is 1.
      %Ou
              The modified command %Ou writes the locale's alternative representation.
       %w     Writes the weekday as a decimal number (0-6), where Sunday is 0.
      %Ow
              The modified command %Ow writes the locale's alternative representation.
                                 ISO 8601 week-based year
   In ISO 8601 weeks begin with Monday and the first week of the year must satisfy the
   following requirements:

     * Includes January 4
     * Includes first Thursday of the year
       %g     Writes the last two decimal digits of the ISO 8601 week-based year. If
              the result is a single digit it is prefixed by 0.
       %G     Writes the ISO 8601 week-based year as a decimal number. If the result
              is less than four digits it is left-padded with 0 to four digits.
              Writes the ISO 8601 week of the year as a decimal number. If the result
       %V     is a single digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %OV
              The modified command %OV writes the locale's alternative representation.
                                   Week/day of the year
              Writes the day of the year as a decimal number (January 1 is 001). If
       %j     the result is less than three digits, it is left-padded with 0 to three
              digits.
              Writes the week number of the year as a decimal number. The first Sunday
              of the year is the first day of week 01. Days of the same year prior to
       %U     that are in week 00. If the result is a single digit, it is prefixed
      %OU     with 0.

              The modified command %OU writes the locale's alternative representation.
              Writes the week number of the year as a decimal number. The first Monday
              of the year is the first day of week 01. Days of the same year prior to
       %W     that are in week 00. If the result is a single digit, it is prefixed
      %OW     with 0.

              The modified command %OW writes the locale's alternative representation.
                                           Date
       %D     Equivalent to "%m/%d/%y".
       %F     Equivalent to "%Y-%m-%d".
              Writes the locale's date representation.
       %x
      %Ex     The modified command %Ex produces the locale's alternate date
              representation.
                                       Time of day
              Writes the hour (24-hour clock) as a decimal number. If the result is a
       %H     single digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %OH
              The modified command %OH writes the locale's alternative representation.
              Writes the hour (12-hour clock) as a decimal number. If the result is a
       %I     single digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %OI
              The modified command %OI writes the locale's alternative representation.
              Writes the minute as a decimal number. If the result is a single digit,
       %M     it is prefixed with 0.
      %OM
              The modified command %OM writes the locale's alternative representation.
              Writes the second as a decimal number. If the number of seconds is less
              than 10, the result is prefixed with 0.

              If the precision of the input cannot be exactly represented with
       %S     seconds, then the format is a decimal floating point number with a fixed
      %OS     format and a precision matching that of the precision of the input (or
              to a microseconds precision if the conversion to floating point decimal
              seconds cannot be made within 18 fractional digits). The character for
              the decimal point is localized according to the locale.

              The modified command %OS writes the locale's alternative representation.
       %p     Writes the locale's equivalent of the AM/PM designations associated with
              a 12-hour clock.
       %R     Equivalent to "%H:%M".
       %T     Equivalent to "%H:%M:%S".
       %r     Writes the locale's 12-hour clock time.
              Writes the locale's time representation.
       %X
      %EX     The modified command %EX writes the locale's alternate time
              representation.
.SH Miscellaneous
              Writes the locale's date and time representation.
       %c
      %Ec     The modified command %Ec writes the locale's alternative date and time
              representation.
              Writes the offset from UTC in the ISO 8601 format. For example -0430
       %z     refers to 4 hours 30 minutes behind UTC. If the offset is zero, +0000 is
      %Ez     used.
      %Oz
              The modified commands %Ez and %Oz insert a : between the hours and
              minutes (e.g., -04:30).
       %Z     Writes the time zone abbreviation.

.SH See also

   to_stream (std::chrono::sys_time)   outputs a sys_time into a stream according to
   (C++20)                             the provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
   to_stream (std::chrono::utc_time)   outputs a utc_time into a stream according to
   (C++20)                             the provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
   to_stream (std::chrono::tai_time)   outputs a tai_time into a stream according to
   (C++20)                             the provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
   to_stream (std::chrono::gps_time)   outputs a gps_time into a stream according to
   (C++20)                             the provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
   to_stream (std::chrono::file_time)  outputs a file_time into a stream according to
   (C++20)                             the provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
   to_stream (std::chrono::local_time) outputs a local_time into a stream according to
   (C++20)                             the provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
                                       outputs a year into a stream according to the
   to_stream                           provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
                                       outputs a month into a stream according to the
   to_stream                           provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
                                       outputs a day into a stream according to the
   to_stream                           provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
                                       outputs a weekday into a stream according to the
   to_stream                           provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
                                       outputs a month_day into a stream according to
   to_stream                           the provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
                                       outputs a year_month into a stream according to
   to_stream                           the provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
                                       outputs a year_month_day into a stream according
   to_stream                           to the provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
                                       outputs a zoned_time into a stream according to
   to_stream                           the provided format
                                       \fI(function template)\fP
