.TH std::sqrt(std::valarray) 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::sqrt(std::valarray) \- std::sqrt(std::valarray)

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <valarray>
   template< class T >
   valarray<T> sqrt( const valarray<T>& va );

   For each element in va computes the square root of the value of the element.

.SH Parameters

   va - value array to apply the operation to

.SH Return value

   Value array containing square roots of the values in va.

.SH Notes

   Unqualified function (sqrt) is used to perform the computation. If such function is
   not available, std::sqrt is used due to argument dependent lookup.

   The function can be implemented with the return type different from std::valarray.
   In this case, the replacement type has the following properties:

     * All const member functions of std::valarray are provided.
     * std::valarray, std::slice_array, std::gslice_array, std::mask_array and
       std::indirect_array can be constructed from the replacement type.
     * All functions accepting an argument of type const std::valarray&
       except begin() and end()
       \fI(since C++11)\fP should also accept the replacement type.
     * All functions accepting two arguments of type const std::valarray& should accept
       every combination of const std::valarray& and the replacement type.
     * The return type does not add more than two levels of template nesting over the
       most deeply-nested argument type.

.SH Possible implementation

   template<class T>
   valarray<T> sqrt(const valarray<T>& va)
   {
       valarray<T> other = va;
       for (T &i : other) {
           i = sqrt(i);
       }
       return other;
   }

.SH Example

   Finds real roots of multiple quadratic equations.

   
// Run this code

 #include <valarray>
 #include <iostream>

 int main()
 {
     std::valarray<double> a(1, 8);
     std::valarray<double> b{1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8};
     std::valarray<double> c = -b;
     // literals must also be of type T (double in this case)
     std::valarray<double> d = std::sqrt((b * b - 4.0 * a * c));
     std::valarray<double> x1 = (-b - d) / (2.0 * a);
     std::valarray<double> x2 = (-b + d) / (2.0 * a);
     std::cout << "quadratic equation    root 1,  root 2" << "\\n";
     for (size_t i = 0; i < a.size(); ++i) {
         std::cout << a[i] << "x\\u00B2 + " << b[i] << "x + " << c[i] << " = 0   ";
         std::cout << x1[i] << ", " << x2[i] << "\\n";
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 quadratic equation    root 1,  root 2
 1x² + 1x + -1 = 0   -1.61803, 0.618034
 1x² + 2x + -2 = 0   -2.73205, 0.732051
 1x² + 3x + -3 = 0   -3.79129, 0.791288
 1x² + 4x + -4 = 0   -4.82843, 0.828427
 1x² + 5x + -5 = 0   -5.8541, 0.854102
 1x² + 6x + -6 = 0   -6.87298, 0.872983
 1x² + 7x + -7 = 0   -7.88748, 0.887482
 1x² + 8x + -8 = 0   -8.89898, 0.898979

.SH See also

                      applies the function std::pow to two valarrays or a valarray and
   pow(std::valarray) a value
                      \fI(function template)\fP
   sqrt               computes square root (
   sqrtf              √
   sqrtl              x)
   \fI(C++11)\fP            \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   sqrt(std::complex) complex square root in the range of the right half-plane
                      \fI(function template)\fP
