.TH std::vector::shrink_to_fit 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::vector::shrink_to_fit \- std::vector::shrink_to_fit

.SH Synopsis
   void shrink_to_fit();  (constexpr since C++20)

   Requests the removal of unused capacity.

   It is a non-binding request to reduce capacity() to size(). It depends on the
   implementation whether the request is fulfilled.

   If reallocation occurs, all iterators (including the end() iterator) and all
   references to the elements are invalidated. If no reallocation occurs, no iterators
   or references are invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Type requirements
   -
   T must meet the requirements of MoveInsertable into *this. \fI(since C++11)\fP

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Complexity

   At most linear in the size of the container.

.SH Exceptions
                                                                          \fI(since C++11)\fP
   If an exception is thrown other than by the move constructor of a
   non-CopyInsertable T, there are no effects.

.SH Notes

   In libstdc++, shrink_to_fit() is not available in C++98 mode.

.SH Example



// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <vector>

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> v;
     std::cout << "Default-constructed capacity is " << v.capacity() << '\\n';
     v.resize(100);
     std::cout << "Capacity of a 100-element vector is " << v.capacity() << '\\n';
     v.resize(50);
     std::cout << "Capacity after resize(50) is " << v.capacity() << '\\n';
     v.shrink_to_fit();
     std::cout << "Capacity after shrink_to_fit() is " << v.capacity() << '\\n';
     v.clear();
     std::cout << "Capacity after clear() is " << v.capacity() << '\\n';
     v.shrink_to_fit();
     std::cout << "Capacity after shrink_to_fit() is " << v.capacity() << '\\n';
     for (int i = 1000; i < 1300; ++i)
         v.push_back(i);
     std::cout << "Capacity after adding 300 elements is " << v.capacity() << '\\n';
     v.shrink_to_fit();
     std::cout << "Capacity after shrink_to_fit() is " << v.capacity() << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Default-constructed capacity is 0
 Capacity of a 100-element vector is 100
 Capacity after resize(50) is 100
 Capacity after shrink_to_fit() is 50
 Capacity after clear() is 50
 Capacity after shrink_to_fit() is 0
 Capacity after adding 300 elements is 512
 Capacity after shrink_to_fit() is 300

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to              Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 755  C++98      std::vector lacked explicit shrink-to-fit       provided
                       operations
   LWG 2033 C++11      1. T was not required to be MoveInsertable      1. required
                       2. the complexity requirement was missing       2. added

.SH See also

   size     returns the number of elements
            \fI(public member function)\fP
            returns the number of elements that can be held in currently allocated
   capacity storage
            \fI(public member function)\fP
