.TH std::slice 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::slice \- std::slice

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <valarray>
   class slice;

   std::slice is the selector class that identifies a subset of std::valarray similar
   to BLAS slice. An object of type std::slice holds three values: the starting index,
   the stride, and the total number of values in the subset. Objects of type std::slice
   can be used as indexes with valarray's operator[].

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs a slice
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   start         returns the parameters of the slice
   size          \fI(public member function)\fP
   stride

std::slice::slice

   slice()
   slice( std::size_t start, std::size_t size, std::size_t stride );
   slice( const slice& other );

   Constructs a new slice.

   1) Default constructor. Equivalent to slice(0, 0, 0). This constructor exists only
   to allow construction of arrays of slices.
   2) Constructs a new slice with parameters start, size, stride. This slice will refer
   to size number of elements, each with the position:
   start + 0*stride
   start + 1*stride
   ...
   start + (size-1)*stride
   3) Constructs a copy of other.

.SH Parameters

   start  - the position of the first element
   size   - the number of elements in the slice
   stride - the number of positions between successive elements in the slice
   other  - another slice to copy

std::slice::start, size, stride

   std::size_t start() const;  \fB(1)\fP
   std::size_t size() const;   \fB(2)\fP
   std::size_t stride() const; \fB(3)\fP

   Returns the parameters passed to the slice on construction - start, size and stride
   respectively.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   The parameters of the slice -- start, size and stride respectively.

.SH Complexity

   Constant.

.SH Example

   Barebones valarray-backed Matrix class with a trace calculating function.

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <valarray>
 class Matrix {
     std::valarray<int> data;
     int dim;
  public:
     Matrix(int r, int c) : data(r*c), dim(c) {}
     int& operator()(int r, int c) {return data[r*dim + c];}
     int trace() const {
         return data[std::slice(0, dim, dim+1)].sum();
     }
 };
 int main()
 {
     Matrix m(3,3);
     int n = 0;
     for(int r=0; r<3; ++r)
        for(int c=0; c<3; ++c)
            m(r, c) = ++n;
     std::cout << "Trace of the matrix (1,2,3) (4,5,6) (7,8,9) is " << m.trace() << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 Trace of the matrix (1,2,3) (4,5,6) (7,8,9) is 15

.SH See also

   operator[]  get/set valarray element, slice, or mask
               \fI(public member function)\fP
               generalized slice of a valarray: starting index, set of lengths, set of
   gslice      strides
               \fI(class)\fP
   slice_array proxy to a subset of a valarray after applying a slice
               \fI(class template)\fP
