.TH std::experimental::flex_barrier::arrive_and_wait 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::flex_barrier::arrive_and_wait \- std::experimental::flex_barrier::arrive_and_wait

.SH Synopsis
   void arrive_and_wait();  (concurrency TS)

   Blocks and arrives at the flex_barrier's synchronization point.

   The behavior is undefined if the calling thread is not in the set of participating
   threads of this flex_barrier.

   Calls to arrive_and_wait synchronizes with the start of the completion phase of the
   flex_barrier. The completion of the completion phase synchronizes with the return
   from the call.

   Calls to arrive_and_drop and arrive_and_wait never introduce data races with
   themselves or each other.

.SH Notes

   It is safe for a thread to call either arrive_and_wait() or arrive_and_drop()
   immediately on return from this call (provided that the function object for the
   completion phase did not return zero). It's not necessary to ensure that all blocked
   threads have exited arrive_and_wait() before a thread calls it again.

   The completion phase executes the function object specified when the flex_barrier
   was constructed. If it returns -1, the set of participating threads is unchanged;
   otherwise, the set of participating threads is a new set with the size equal to the
   return value N, and consists of the next N threads to arrive at the synchronization
   point. If N == 0, the flex_barrier can only be destroyed.

   The initial set of participating threads for a flex_barrier constructed for
   num_threads threads is the first num_threads to arrive at its synchronization point.

.SH Exceptions

   Throws nothing.

.SH See also

                   arrive at the synchronization point and remove the current thread
   arrive_and_drop from the set of participating threads
                   \fI(public member function)\fP
