.TH std::recursive_mutex 3 "Apr 19 2014" "1.0.0" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <mutex>
   class recursive_mutex;     \fI(since C++11)\fP

   The recursive_mutex class is a synchronization primitive that can be used to protect
   shared data from being simultaneously accessed by multiple threads.

   recursive_mutex offers exclusive, recursive ownership semantics:

     * A calling thread owns a recursive_mutex for a period of time that starts when it
       successfully calls either lock or try_lock. During this period, the thread may
       make additional calls to lock or try_lock. The period of ownership ends when the
       thread makes a matching number of calls to unlock.
     * When a thread owns a recursive_mutex, all other threads will block (for calls to
       lock) or receive a false return value (for try_lock) if they attempt to claim
       ownership of the recursive_mutex.
     * The maximum number of times that a recursive_mutex may be locked is unspecified,
       but after that number is reached, calls to lock will throw std::system_error and
       calls to try_lock will return false.

   The behavior of a program is undefined if a recursive_mutex is destroyed while still
   owned by some thread. The recursive_mutex class satisfies all requiremenets of Mutex
   and StandardLayoutType.

.SH Contents

     * 1 Member types
     * 2 Member functions

          * 2.1 Locking
          * 2.2 Native handle

.SH Member types

   Member type        Definition
   native_handle_type implementation-defined

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs the mutex
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   destructor    destroys the mutex
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=     not copy-assignable
   [deleted]     \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Locking
   lock          locks the mutex, blocks if the mutex is not available
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   try_lock      tries to lock the mutex, returns if the mutex is not available
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   unlock        unlocks the mutex
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Native handle
   native_handle returns the underlying implementation-defined thread handle
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
