.TH std::thread::detach 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::thread::detach \- std::thread::detach

.SH Synopsis
   void detach();  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Separates the thread of execution from the thread object, allowing execution to
   continue independently. Any allocated resources will be freed once the thread exits.

   After calling detach *this no longer owns any thread.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Postconditions

   joinable is false

.SH Exceptions

   std::system_error if joinable() == false or an error occurs.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <chrono>
 #include <thread>

 void independentThread()
 {
     std::cout << "Starting concurrent thread.\\n";
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(2));
     std::cout << "Exiting concurrent thread.\\n";
 }

 void threadCaller()
 {
     std::cout << "Starting thread caller.\\n";
     std::thread t(independentThread);
     t.detach();
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(1));
     std::cout << "Exiting thread caller.\\n";
 }

 int main()
 {
     threadCaller();
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(5));
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Starting thread caller.
 Starting concurrent thread.
 Exiting thread caller.
 Exiting concurrent thread.

.SH References

     * C++20 standard (ISO/IEC 14882:2020):

              * 32.4.2.5 Members [thread.thread.member]

     * C++17 standard (ISO/IEC 14882:2017):

              * 33.3.2.5 thread members [thread.thread.member]

     * C++14 standard (ISO/IEC 14882:2014):

              * 30.3.1.5 thread members [thread.thread.member]

     * C++11 standard (ISO/IEC 14882:2011):

              * 30.3.1.5 thread members [thread.thread.member]

.SH See also

   join     waits for the thread to finish its execution
            \fI(public member function)\fP
            checks whether the thread is joinable, i.e. potentially running in parallel
   joinable context
            \fI(public member function)\fP
