.TH std::experimental::invocation_type,std::experimental::raw_invocation_type 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::invocation_type,std::experimental::raw_invocation_type \- std::experimental::invocation_type,std::experimental::raw_invocation_type

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/type_traits>
   template< class >

   struct raw_invocation_type; //undefined
                                                \fB(1)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   template< class Fn, class... ArgTypes >

   struct raw_invocation_type<Fn(ArgTypes...)>;
   template< class >

   struct invocation_type; //undefined
                                                \fB(2)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   template< class Fn, class... ArgTypes >

   struct invocation_type<Fn(ArgTypes...)>;

   Computes the invocation parameters when Fn is called with the arguments ArgTypes...,
   as in INVOKE(std::declval<Fn>(), std::declval<ArgTypes>()...), where INVOKE is the
   operation defined in Callable.

   The invocation parameters of the expression INVOKE(f, t1, t2, ..., tN) is defined as
   follows, where T1 is the (possibly cv-qualified) type of t1 and U1 is T1& if t1 is
   an lvalue and T1&& otherwise:

     * If f is a pointer to a member function of a class T, then the invocation
       parameters are U1 followed by the parameters of f matched by t2, ..., tN.
     * If N == 1 and f is a pointer to member data of a class T, then the invocation
       parameter is U1.
     * If f is an object of class type, the invocation parameters are the parameters
       matching t1, ..., tN of the best viable function for the arguments t1, ..., tN
       among the function call operators and surrogate call functions of f.
     * In all other cases, the invocations parameters are the parameters of f matching
       t1, ..., tN.

   If an argument tI matches an ellipsis in the function's parameter list, the
   corresponding invocation parameter is the result of applying the default argument
   promotions to tI.

   Fn and all types in ArgTypes can be any complete type, array of unknown bound, or
   (possibly cv-qualified) void.

.SH Member types

   Member type                                Definition
                                              R(T1, T2, ...), where:
                                                * R is
                                                  std::result_of_t<Fn(ArgTypes...)>.
                                                * T1, T2, ... are the invocation
                                                  parameters of
   raw_invocation_type<Fn(ArgTypes...)>::type     INVOKE(std::declval<Fn>(),
                                                  std::declval<ArgTypes>()...) as
                                                  defined above.

                                              Only defined if Fn can be called with the
                                              arguments ArgTypes... in unevaluated
                                              context.
                                              R(U1, U2, ...), where
                                                * R is
                                                  std::result_of_t<Fn(ArgTypes...)>.
                                                * T1, T2, ... are the invocation
                                                  parameters of
                                                  INVOKE(std::declval<Fn>(),
                                                  std::declval<ArgTypes>()...) as
   invocation_type<Fn(ArgTypes...)>::type         defined above.
                                                * A1, A2, ... denotes ArgTypes...
                                                * Ui is std::decay_t<Ai> if
                                                  std::declval<Ai>() is an rvalue and
                                                  Ti otherwise.

                                              Only defined if Fn can be called with the
                                              arguments ArgTypes... in unevaluated
                                              context.

.SH Helper types

   template< class T >
   using raw_invocation_type_t = typename                     (library fundamentals TS)
   raw_invocation_type<T>::type;
   template< class T >
   using invocation_type_t = typename                         (library fundamentals TS)
   invocation_type<T>::type;

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   C++ documentation for
   Reflection TS

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
