.TH std::variant<Types...>::emplace 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::variant<Types...>::emplace \- std::variant<Types...>::emplace

.SH Synopsis
   template <class T, class... Args>                                  \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   T& emplace(Args&&... args);
   template <class T, class U, class... Args>                         \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   T& emplace(std::initializer_list<U> il, Args&&... args);
   template <size_t I, class... Args>                                 \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   std::variant_alternative_t<I, variant>& emplace(Args&&... args);
   template <size_t I, class U, class... Args>
   std::variant_alternative_t<I, variant>&                            \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   emplace(std::initializer_list<U> il, Args&&... args);

   Creates a new value in-place, in an existing variant object

   1) Equivalent to emplace<I>(std::forward<Args>(args)...), where I is the zero-based
   index of T in Types.... This overload only participates in overload resolution if
   std::is_constructible_v<T, Args...> is true, and T occurs exactly once in Types...
   2) Equivalent to emplace<I>(il, std::forward<Args>(args)...), where I is the
   zero-based index of T in Types.... This overload only participates in overload
   resolution if std::is_constructible_v<T, std::initializer_list<U>&, Args...> is
   true, and T occurs exactly once in Types...
   3) First, destroys the currently contained value (if any). Then direct-initializes
   the contained value as if constructing a value of type T_I with the arguments
   std::forward<Args>(args).... If an exception is thrown, *this may become
   valueless_by_exception. This overload only participates in overload resolution if
   std::is_constructible_v<T_I, Args...> is true. The behavior is undefined if I is not
   less than sizeof...(Types).
   4) First, destroys the currently contained value (if any). Then direct-initializes
   the contained value as if constructing a value of type T_I with the arguments il,
   std::forward<Args>(args).... If an exception is thrown, *this may become
   valueless_by_exception. This overload only participates in overload resolution if
   std::is_constructible_v<T_I, initializer_list<U>&, Args...> is true. The behavior is
   undefined if I is not less than sizeof...(Types).

.SH Parameters

   args - constructor arguments to use when constructing the new value
   il   - initializer_list argument to use when constructing the new value

.SH Return value

   A reference to the new contained value.

.SH Exceptions

   1-4) Any exception thrown during the initialization of the contained value.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <variant>

 int main()
 {
   std::variant<std::string> v1;
   v1.emplace<0>("abc"); // OK
   std::cout << std::get<0>(v1) << '\\n';
   v1.emplace<std::string>("def"); // OK
   std::cout << std::get<0>(v1) << '\\n';

   std::variant<std::string, std::string> v2;
   v2.emplace<1>("ghi"); // OK
   std::cout << std::get<1>(v2) << '\\n';
   // v2.emplace<std::string>("abc"); -> Error
 }

.SH Output:

 abc
 def
 ghi

.SH See also

   operator= assigns a variant
             \fI(public member function)\fP
