.TH std::ranges::min_max_result 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::min_max_result \- std::ranges::min_max_result

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class T >            \fI(since C++20)\fP
   struct min_max_result;

   ranges::min_max_result is a class template that provides a way to store two objects
   or references of the same type as a single unit.

   This class template has no base classes or declared members other than those shown
   below. Thus it is suitable for use with structured bindings.

   All special member functions of this class template are implicitly declared, which
   makes specializations be aggregate classes, and propagate triviality,
   potentially-throwing-ness, and constexpr-ness of corresponding operations on data
   members.

.SH Template parameters

   T - the type of the objects or references that the ranges::min_max_result stores.

   Data members

   Member name Definition
               may be a reference to, a copy of, or an iterator of type T to a minimum
   min         element in a range.
               \fI(public member object)\fP
               may be a reference to, a copy of, or an iterator of type T to a maximum
   max         element in a range
               \fI(public member object)\fP

   All these members are declared with [[no_unique_address]] attribute.

.SH Member functions

std::ranges::min_max_result::operator min_max_result<T2>

   template<class T2>

   requires std::convertible_to<const T&, T2>       \fB(1)\fP

   constexpr operator min_max_result<T2>() const &;
   template<class T2>

   requires std::convertible_to<T, T2>              \fB(2)\fP

   constexpr operator min_max_result<T2>() &&;

   Converts *this to the result by constructing every data member of the result from
   the corresponding member of *this.

   1) Equivalent to return {min, max};.
   2) Equivalent to return {std::move(min), std::move(max)};.

.SH Standard library

   The following standard library functions use ranges::min_max_result as the return
   type:

         Algorithm functions
   ranges::minmax         returns the smaller and larger of two elements
   (C++20)                (niebloid)
   ranges::minmax_element returns the smallest and the largest elements in a range
   (C++20)                (niebloid)

.SH Synopsis

 namespace std::ranges
 {
     template<class T>
     struct min_max_result
     {
         [[no_unique_address]] T min;
         [[no_unique_address]] T max;

         template<class T2>
         requires std::convertible_to<const T&, T2>
         constexpr operator min_max_result<T2>() const &
         {
             return {min, max};
         }

         template<class T2>
         requires std::convertible_to<T, T2>
         constexpr operator min_max_result<T2>() &&
         {
             return {std::move(min), std::move(max)};
         }
     };
 }

.SH Notes

   Each standard library algorithm that uses this family of return types declares a new
   alias type, e.g. using merge_result = in_in_out_result<I1, I2, O>;.

   The names for such aliases are formed by adding the suffix "_result" to the
   algorithm's name. So, the return type of std::ranges::merge can be named as
   std::ranges::merge_result.

   Unlike std::pair and std::tuple, this class template has data members of meaningful
   names.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <ranges>

 int main()
 {
     constexpr static auto v = {3, 1, 4, 1, 5, 9, 2};
     {
         constexpr auto result = std::ranges::minmax(v);
         static_assert(1 == result.min && 9 == result.max);
     }
     {
         constexpr auto result = std::ranges::minmax_element(v);
         static_assert(1 == *result.min && 9 == *result.max);
     }
 }

.SH See also

   pair    implements binary tuple, i.e. a pair of values
           \fI(class template)\fP
   tuple   implements fixed size container, which holds elements of possibly different
   \fI(C++11)\fP types
           \fI(class template)\fP
