.TH std::ctime 3 "Nov 25 2015" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ctime \- std::ctime

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <ctime>
   char* ctime( const std::time_t* time );

   Converts given time since epoch to a calendar local time and then to a textual
   representation, as if by calling std::asctime(std::localtime(time)). The resulting
   string has the following format:

 Www Mmm dd hh:mm:ss yyyy

     * Www - the day of the week (one of Mon, Tue, Wed, Thu, Fri, Sat, Sun).
     * Mmm - the month (one of Jan, Feb, Mar, Apr, May, Jun, Jul, Aug, Sep, Oct, Nov,
       Dec).
     * dd - the day of the month
     * hh - hours
     * mm - minutes
     * ss - seconds
     * yyyy - years

   The function does not support localization.

.SH Parameters

   time - pointer to a std::time_t object specifying the time to print

.SH Return value

   Pointer to a static null-terminated character string holding the textual
   representation of date and time. The string may be shared between std::asctime and
   std::ctime, and may be overwritten on each invocation of any of those functions.

.SH Notes

   This function returns a pointer to static data and is not thread-safe. In addition,
   it modifies the static std::tm object which may be shared with std::gmtime and
   std::localtime. POSIX marks this function obsolete and recommends std::strftime
   instead.

   The behavior may be undefined for the values of time_t that result in the string
   longer than 25 characters (e.g. year 10000)

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <ctime>
 #include <iostream>
  
 int main()
 {
     std::time_t result = std::time(NULL);
     std::cout << std::ctime(&result);
 }

.SH Output:

 Tue Dec 27 17:21:29 2011

.SH See also

   asctime  converts a tm object to a textual representation
            \fI(function)\fP 
   strftime converts a tm object to custom textual representation
            \fI(function)\fP 
   put_time formats and outputs a date/time value according to the specified format
   \fI(C++11)\fP  \fI(function template)\fP 
   C documentation for
   ctime
