.TH std::auto_ptr::operator= 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::auto_ptr::operator= \- std::auto_ptr::operator=

.SH Synopsis
   auto_ptr& operator=( auto_ptr& r ) throw();       \fB(1)\fP (deprecated in C++11)
                                                         (removed in C++17)
   template< class Y >                               \fB(2)\fP (deprecated in C++11)
   auto_ptr& operator=( auto_ptr<Y>& r ) throw();        (removed in C++17)
   auto_ptr& operator=( auto_ptr_ref<T> m ) throw(); \fB(3)\fP (deprecated in C++11)
                                                         (removed in C++17)

   Replaces the managed object with the one managed by r or m.

   1) Effectively calls reset(r.release()).
   2) Effectively calls reset(r.release()). Y* must be implicitly convertible to T*.
   3) Effectively calls reset(m.release()). auto_ptr_ref is an implementation-defined
   type that holds a reference to auto_ptr. std::auto_ptr is implicitly convertible to
   and from this type. The implementation is allowed to provide the template with a
   different name or implement equivalent functionality in other ways.

.SH Parameters

   r - another auto_ptr to transfer the ownership of the object from
   m - an object of implementation-defined type that holds a reference to auto_ptr

.SH Return value

   *this.

.SH Notes

   The constructor and the copy assignment operator from auto_ptr_ref is provided to
   allow copy-constructing and assigning std::auto_ptr from nameless temporaries. Since
   its copy constructor and copy assignment operator take the argument as non-const
   reference, they cannot bind rvalue arguments directly. However, a user-defined
   conversion can be executed (which releases the original auto_ptr), followed by a
   call to the constructor or copy-assignment operator that take auto_ptr_ref by value.
   This is an early implementation of move semantics.

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

     DR    Applied to             Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 127 C++98      auto_ptr was not assignable from auto_ptr_ref added overload \fB(3)\fP
