.TH std::vector::resize 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::vector::resize \- std::vector::resize

.SH Synopsis
   void resize( size_type count, T value = T() );               \fI(until C++11)\fP
   void resize( size_type count );                          \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   void resize( size_type count, const value_type& value ); \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Resizes the container to contain count elements.

   If the current size is greater than count, the container is reduced to its first
   count elements.

   If the current size is less than count, additional elements are        \fI(until C++11)\fP
   appended and initialized with copies of value.
   If the current size is less than count,
                                                                          \fI(since C++11)\fP
   1) additional default-inserted elements are appended
   2) additional copies of value are appended

.SH Parameters

   count            -           new size of the container
   value            -           the value to initialize the new elements with
.SH Type requirements
   -
   T must meet the requirements of MoveInsertable and DefaultInsertable in order to use
   overload \fB(1)\fP.
   -
   T must meet the requirements of CopyInsertable in order to use overload \fB(2)\fP.

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Complexity

   Linear in the difference between the current size and count. Additional complexity
   possible due to reallocation if capacity is less than count

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown, this function has no effect \fI(strong exception guarantee)\fP.

   In overload \fB(1)\fP, if T's move constructor is not noexcept and T is not
   CopyInsertable into *this, vector will use the throwing move           \fI(since C++11)\fP
   constructor. If it throws, the guarantee is waived and the effects are
   unspecified.

.SH Notes

   If value-initialization in overload \fB(1)\fP is undesirable, for example, if the elements
   are of non-class type and zeroing out is not needed, it can be avoided by providing
   a custom Allocator::construct.

   Vector capacity is never reduced when resizing to smaller size because that would
   invalidate all iterators, rather than only the ones that would be invalidated by the
   equivalent sequence of pop_back() calls.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <vector>
 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> c = {1, 2, 3};
     std::cout << "The vector holds: ";
     for(auto& el: c) std::cout << el << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
     c.resize(5);
     std::cout << "After resize up to 5: ";
     for(auto& el: c) std::cout << el << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
     c.resize(2);
     std::cout << "After resize down to 2: ";
     for(auto& el: c) std::cout << el << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 The vector holds: 1 2 3
 After resize up to 5: 1 2 3 0 0
 After resize down to 2: 1 2

.SH See also

   size   returns the number of elements
          \fI(public member function)\fP 
   insert inserts elements
          \fI(public member function)\fP 
   erase  erases elements
          \fI(public member function)\fP 
