.TH std::filesystem::remove,std::filesystem::remove_all 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::filesystem::remove,std::filesystem::remove_all \- std::filesystem::remove,std::filesystem::remove_all

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <filesystem>
   bool remove( const std::filesystem::path& p );                     \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   bool remove( const std::filesystem::path& p, std::error_code& ec ) \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   noexcept;
   std::uintmax_t remove_all( const std::filesystem::path& p );       \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   std::uintmax_t remove_all( const std::filesystem::path& p,         \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   std::error_code& ec );

   1,2) The file or empty directory identified by the path p is deleted as if by the
   POSIX remove. Symlinks are not followed (symlink is removed, not its target).
   3,4) Deletes the contents of p (if it is a directory) and the contents of all its
   subdirectories, recursively, then deletes p itself as if by repeatedly applying the
   POSIX remove. Symlinks are not followed (symlink is removed, not its target).

.SH Parameters

   p  - path to delete
   ec - out-parameter for error reporting in the non-throwing overload.

.SH Return value

   1,2) true if the file was deleted, false if it did not exist. The overload that
   takes error_code& argument returns false on errors.
   3,4) Returns the number of files and directories that were deleted (which may be
   zero if p did not exist to begin with). The overload that takes error_code& argument
   returns static_cast<std::uintmax_t>(-1) on error.

.SH Exceptions

   Any overload not marked noexcept may throw std::bad_alloc if memory allocation
   fails.

   1,3) Throws std::filesystem::filesystem_error on underlying OS API errors,
   constructed with p as the first path argument and the OS error code as the error
   code argument.
   2,4) Sets a std::error_code& parameter to the OS API error code if an OS API call
   fails, and executes ec.clear() if no errors occur.

.SH Notes

   On POSIX systems, this function typically calls unlink and rmdir as needed, on
   Windows RemoveDirectoryW and DeleteFileW.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cstdint>
 #include <filesystem>
 #include <iostream>
 namespace fs = std::filesystem;

 int main()
 {
     fs::path tmp{std::filesystem::temp_directory_path()};
     std::filesystem::create_directories(tmp / "abcdef/example");
     std::uintmax_t n{fs::remove_all(tmp / "abcdef")};
     std::cout << "Deleted " << n << " files or directories\\n";
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Deleted 2 files or directories

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to              Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 3014 C++17      error_code overload of remove_all marked        noexcept removed
                       noexcept but can allocate memory

.SH See also

   remove erases a file
          \fI(function)\fP
