.TH std::unordered_multimap<Key,T,Hash,KeyEqual,Allocator>::equal_range 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::unordered_multimap<Key,T,Hash,KeyEqual,Allocator>::equal_range \- std::unordered_multimap<Key,T,Hash,KeyEqual,Allocator>::equal_range

.SH Synopsis
   std::pair<iterator,iterator> equal_range( const Key& key );        \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::pair<iterator,iterator> equal_range( const Key& key,          \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   std::size_t hash );
   std::pair<const_iterator,const_iterator> equal_range( const Key&   \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   key ) const;
   std::pair<const_iterator,const_iterator> equal_range( const Key&
   key,                                                               \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   std::size_t hash ) const;
   template< class K >                                                \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   std::pair<iterator,iterator> equal_range( const K& x );
   template< class K >
   std::pair<iterator,iterator> equal_range( const K& x, std::size_t  \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   hash );
   template< class K >
   std::pair<const_iterator,const_iterator> equal_range( const K& x ) \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   const;
   template< class K >

   std::pair<const_iterator,const_iterator> equal_range( const K& x,  \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   std::size_t hash ) const;

   1,2) Returns a range containing all elements with key key in the container. The
   range is defined by two iterators, the first pointing to the first element of the
   wanted range and the second pointing past the last element of the range.
   3,4) Returns a range containing all elements in the container with key equivalent to
   x. This overload only participates in overload resolution if the qualified-id
   Hash::transparent_key_equal is valid and denotes a type. This assumes that such Hash
   is callable with both K and Key type, and that its key_equal is transparent, which,
   together, allows calling this function without constructing an instance of Key.

   If present, the hash parameter may be used to pass a pre-computed hash
   value as an optimization. The behavior is undefined if invoking        \fI(since C++20)\fP
   hash_function() on the key passed do not produce the same value as
   hash.

.SH Parameters

   key  - key value to compare the elements to
   x    - a value of any type that can be transparently compared with a key
   hash - the hash value of the key

.SH Return value

   std::pair containing a pair of iterators defining the wanted range. If there are no
   such elements, past-the-end (see end()) iterators are returned as both elements of
   the pair.

.SH Complexity

   Average case linear in the number of elements with the key key, worst case linear in
   the size of the container.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <unordered_map>

 int main()
 {
     std::unordered_multimap<int,char> map = {{1,'a'},{1,'b'},{1,'d'},{2,'b'}};
     auto range = map.equal_range(1);
     for (auto it = range.first; it != range.second; ++it) {
         std::cout << it->first << ' ' << it->second << '\\n';
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 1 a
 1 b
 1 d

.SH See also

   find finds element with specific key
        \fI(public member function)\fP
