.TH std::memcmp 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::memcmp \- std::memcmp

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstring>
   int memcmp( const void* lhs, const void* rhs, std::size_t count );

   Reinterprets the objects pointed to by lhs and rhs as arrays of unsigned char and
   compares the first count characters of these arrays. The comparison is done
   lexicographically.

   The sign of the result is the sign of the difference between the values of the first
   pair of bytes (both interpreted as unsigned char) that differ in the objects being
   compared.

.SH Parameters

   lhs, rhs - pointers to the memory buffers to compare
   count    - number of bytes to examine

.SH Return value

   Negative value if the first differing byte (reinterpreted as unsigned char) in lhs
   is less than the corresponding byte in rhs.

   0 if all count bytes of lhs and rhs are equal.

   Positive value if the first differing byte in lhs is greater than the corresponding
   byte in rhs.

.SH Notes

   This function reads object representations, not the object values, and is typically
   only meaningful for trivially-copyable objects with no padding. For example,
   memcmp() between two objects of type std::string or std::vector will not compare
   their contents, and memcmp() between two objects of type struct{char c; int n;} will
   compare the padding bytes whose values may differ when the values of c and n are the
   same.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <cstring>

 void demo(const char* lhs, const char* rhs, std::size_t sz)
 {
     std::cout << std::string(lhs, sz);
     int rc = std::memcmp(lhs, rhs, sz);
     if(rc == 0)
         std::cout << " compares equal to ";
     else if(rc < 0)
         std::cout << " precedes ";
     else if(rc > 0)
         std::cout << " follows ";
     std::cout << std::string(rhs, sz) << " in lexicographical order\\n";
 }

 int main()
 {
     char a1[] = {'a','b','c'};
     char a2[sizeof a1] = {'a','b','d'};

     demo(a1, a2, sizeof a1);
     demo(a2, a1, sizeof a1);
     demo(a1, a1, sizeof a1);
 }

.SH Output:

 abc precedes abd in lexicographical order
 abd follows abc in lexicographical order
 abc compares equal to abc in lexicographical order

.SH See also

   strcmp  compares two strings
           \fI(function)\fP
   strncmp compares a certain number of characters from two strings
           \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   memcmp
