.TH std::unordered_map::emplace 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::unordered_map::emplace \- std::unordered_map::emplace

.SH Synopsis
   template< class... Args >                            \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::pair<iterator,bool> emplace( Args&&... args );

   Inserts a new element into the container constructed in-place with the given args if
   there is no element with the key in the container.

   Careful use of emplace allows the new element to be constructed while avoiding
   unnecessary copy or move operations. The constructor of the new element (i.e.
   std::pair<const Key, T>) is called with exactly the same arguments as supplied to
   emplace, forwarded via std::forward<Args>(args).... The element may be constructed
   even if there already is an element with the key in the container, in which case the
   newly constructed element will be destroyed immediately.

   If rehashing occurs due to the insertion, all iterators are invalidated. Otherwise
   iterators are not affected. References are not invalidated. Rehashing occurs only if
   the new number of elements is greater than max_load_factor()*bucket_count().

.SH Parameters

   args - arguments to forward to the constructor of the element

.SH Return value

   Returns a pair consisting of an iterator to the inserted element, or the
   already-existing element if no insertion happened, and a bool denoting whether the
   insertion took place (true if insertion happened, false if it did not).

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown by any operation, this function has no effect.

.SH Complexity

   Amortized constant on average, worst case linear in the size of the container.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <utility>
 #include <string>
 #include <unordered_map>

 int main()
 {
     std::unordered_map<std::string, std::string> m;

     // uses pair's move constructor
     m.emplace(std::make_pair(std::string("a"), std::string("a")));

     // uses pair's converting move constructor
     m.emplace(std::make_pair("b", "abcd"));

     // uses pair's template constructor
     m.emplace("d", "ddd");

     // uses pair's piecewise constructor
     m.emplace(std::piecewise_construct,
               std::forward_as_tuple("c"),
               std::forward_as_tuple(10, 'c'));
     // as of C++17, m.try_emplace("c", 10, 'c'); can be used

     for (const auto &p : m) {
         std::cout << p.first << " => " << p.second << '\\n';
     }
 }

.SH Possible output:

 a => a
 b => abcd
 c => cccccccccc
 d => ddd

.SH See also

   emplace_hint constructs elements in-place using a hint
   \fI(C++11)\fP      \fI(public member function)\fP
   try_emplace  inserts in-place if the key does not exist, does nothing if the key
   \fI(C++17)\fP      exists
                \fI(public member function)\fP
                inserts elements
   insert       or nodes
   \fI(C++11)\fP      \fI(since C++17)\fP
                \fI(public member function)\fP
