.TH std::pow 3 "Apr 19 2014" "1.0.0" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float pow( float base, float exp );                   \fB(1)\fP
   double pow( double base, double exp );                \fB(2)\fP
   long double pow( long double base, long double exp ); \fB(3)\fP
   float pow( float base, int iexp );                    \fB(4)\fP \fI(until C++11)\fP
   double pow( double base, int iexp );                  \fB(5)\fP \fI(until C++11)\fP
   long double pow( long double base, int iexp );        \fB(6)\fP \fI(until C++11)\fP
   Promoted pow( Arithmetic1 base, Arithmetic2 exp );    \fB(7)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Computes the value of base raised to the power exp or iexp.

   7) A set of overloads or a function template for all combinations of arguments of
   arithmetic type not covered by 1-3). If any argument has integral type, it is cast
   to double. If any argument is long double, then the return type Promoted is also
   long double, otherwise the return type is always double.

.SH Contents

     • 1 Parameters
     • 2 Return value
     • 3 Notes
     • 4 See also

.SH Parameters

   base - base as a value of floating-point or integral type
   exp  - exponent as a value of floating-point or integral type
   iexp - exponent as integer value

.SH Return value

   base raised by power (exp or iexp).

   Domain error occurs if base is 0 and exp is less than or equal to 0. NAN is
   returned in that case.

   Domain error occurs if base is negative and exp is not an integer value. NAN is
   returned in that case.

   Range error occurs if an overflow takes place. HUGEVAL is returned in that case.

   If domain error occurs and math_errhandling & MATH_ERRNO is nonzero,
   errno is set to EDOM.

   If domain error occurs and math_errhandling & MATH_ERREXCEPT is
   nonzero, FE_INVALID raised.
                                                                          \fI(since C++11)\fP
   If range error occurs and math_errhandling & MATH_ERRNO is nonzero,
   errno is set to ERANGE.

   If range error occurs and math_errhandling & MATH_ERREXCEPT is
   nonzero, FE_OVERFLOW is raised.

.SH Notes

   pow(float, int) returns float until C++11 (per overload 4) but returns double since
   C++11 (per overload 7)

.SH See also

   exp                returns e raised to the given power (e^x)
                      \fI(function)\fP
   log                computes natural (base e) logarithm (to base e) (ln(x))
                      \fI(function)\fP
                      computes square root (
   sqrt               √
                      x)
                      \fI(function)\fP
                      computes cubic root (
   cbrt               3
   \fI(C++11)\fP            √
                      x)
                      \fI(function)\fP
   pow(std::complex)  complex power, one or both arguments may be a complex number
                      \fI(function template)\fP
                      applies the function std::pow to two valarrays or a valarray and
   pow(std::valarray) a value
                      \fI(function template)\fP
   C documentation for
   pow
