.TH std::basic_ostream::sentry 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_ostream::sentry \- std::basic_ostream::sentry

.SH Synopsis
   class sentry;

   An object of class basic_ostream::sentry is constructed in local scope at the
   beginning of each member function of std::basic_ostream that performs output (both
   formatted and unformatted). Its constructor prepares the output stream: checks if
   the stream is already in a failed state, flushes the tie()'d output streams, and
   performs other implementation-defined tasks if necessary. Implementation-defined
   cleanup, as well as flushing of the output stream if necessary, is performed in the
   destructor, so that it is guaranteed to happen if exceptions are thrown during
   output.

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs the sentry object. All the preparation tasks are done here
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
                 finalizes the stream object after formatted output or after exception,
   destructor    if necessary
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=     the assignment operator is deleted
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator bool checks if the preparation of the stream object was successful
                 \fI(public member function)\fP

std::basic_ostream::sentry::sentry

   explicit sentry( std::basic_ostream<CharT,Traits>& os );

   Prepares the stream for formatted output.

   If os.good() is false, returns. Otherwise, if os.tie() is not a null pointer, calls
   os.tie()->flush() to synchronize the output sequence with external streams. During
   preparation, the constructor may call setstate(failbit) (which may throw
   std::ios_base::failure).

   If after preparation is completed, os.good() == true, then any subsequent calls to
   operator bool will return true.

.SH Parameters

   os - output stream to prepare

.SH Exceptions

   std::ios_base::failure if the end of file condition occurs.

std::basic_ostream::sentry::~sentry

   ~sentry();

   If (os.flags() & std::ios_base::unitbuf) && !std::uncaught_exception() && os.good())
   is true, calls os.rdbuf()->pubsync(). If that function returns -1, sets badbit in
   os.rdstate() without propagating an exception.

std::basic_ostream::sentry::operator bool

   explicit operator bool() const;

   Checks whether the preparation of the output stream was successful.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   true if the preparation of the output stream was successful, false otherwise.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <sstream>

 struct Foo
 {
     char n[6];
 };

 std::ostream& operator<<(std::ostream& os, Foo& f)
 {
     std::ostream::sentry s(os);
     if (s) {
         os.write(f.n, 5);
     }
     return os;
 }

 int main()
 {
     Foo f = { "abcde" };
     std::cout << f << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 abcde

.SH See also

   operator<< inserts formatted data
              \fI(public member function)\fP
