.TH std::unordered_multimap::unordered_multimap 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::unordered_multimap::unordered_multimap \- std::unordered_multimap::unordered_multimap

.SH Synopsis
   unordered_multimap() : unordered_multimap(
   size_type(/*implementation-defined*/) ) {}

   explicit unordered_multimap( size_type bucket_count,
                                const Hash& hash = Hash(),            \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                const KeyEqual& equal = KeyEqual(),

                                const Allocator& alloc = Allocator()
   );
   unordered_multimap( size_type bucket_count,

                       const Allocator& alloc )
                      : unordered_multimap(bucket_count, Hash(),
   KeyEqual(), alloc) {}
   unordered_multimap( size_type bucket_count,                        \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++14)\fP
                       const Hash& hash,
                       const Allocator& alloc )

                      : unordered_multimap(bucket_count, hash,
   KeyEqual(), alloc) {}
   explicit unordered_multimap( const Allocator& alloc );             \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   template< class InputIt >

   unordered_multimap( InputIt first, InputIt last,
                       size_type bucket_count =
   /*implementation-defined*/,                                        \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                       const Hash& hash = Hash(),
                       const KeyEqual& equal = KeyEqual(),

                       const Allocator& alloc = Allocator() );
   template< class InputIt >

   unordered_multimap( InputIt first, InputIt last,
                       size_type bucket_count,                        \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++14)\fP
                       const Allocator& alloc )
                      : unordered_multimap(first, last,

                          bucket_count, Hash(), KeyEqual(), alloc) {}
   template< class InputIt >

   unordered_multimap( InputIt first, InputIt last,
                       size_type bucket_count,
                       const Hash& hash,                              \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++14)\fP
                       const Allocator& alloc )
                      : unordered_multimap(first, last,

                          bucket_count, hash, KeyEqual(), alloc) {}
   unordered_multimap( const unordered_multimap& other );             \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   unordered_multimap( const unordered_multimap& other, const         \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   Allocator& alloc );
   unordered_multimap( unordered_multimap&& other );                  \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   unordered_multimap( unordered_multimap&& other, const Allocator&   \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   alloc );
   unordered_multimap( std::initializer_list<value_type> init,

                       size_type bucket_count =
   /*implementation-defined*/,                                        \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                       const Hash& hash = Hash(),
                       const KeyEqual& equal = KeyEqual(),

                       const Allocator& alloc = Allocator() );
   unordered_multimap( std::initializer_list<value_type> init,

                       size_type bucket_count,
                       const Allocator& alloc )                       \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++14)\fP
                      : unordered_multimap(init, bucket_count,

                          Hash(), KeyEqual(), alloc) {}
   unordered_multimap( std::initializer_list<value_type> init,

                       size_type bucket_count,
                       const Hash& hash,                              \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++14)\fP
                       const Allocator& alloc )
                      : unordered_multimap(init, bucket_count,

                          hash, KeyEqual(), alloc) {}

   Constructs new container from a variety of data sources. Optionally uses user
   supplied bucket_count as a minimal number of buckets to create, hash as the hash
   function, equal as the function to compare keys and alloc as the allocator.

   1) Constructs empty container. Sets max_load_factor() to 1.0. For the default
   constructor, the number of buckets is implementation-defined.
   2) constructs the container with the contents of the range [first, last). Sets
   max_load_factor() to 1.0.
   3) copy constructor. Constructs the container with the copy of the contents of
   other, copies the load factor, the predicate, and the hash function as well. If
   alloc is not provided, allocator is obtained by calling
   std::allocator_traits<allocator_type>::select_on_container_copy_construction(other.get_allocator()).
   4) move constructor. Constructs the container with the contents of other using move
   semantics. If alloc is not provided, allocator is obtained by move-construction from
   the allocator belonging to other.
   5) constructs the container with the contents of the initializer list init, same as
   unordered_multimap(init.begin(), init.end()).

.SH Parameters

   alloc        - allocator to use for all memory allocations of this container
   bucket_count - minimal number of buckets to use on initialization. If it is not
                  specified, implementation-defined default value is used
   hash         - hash function to use
   equal        - comparison function to use for all key comparisons of this container
   first, last  - the range to copy the elements from
   other        - another container to be used as source to initialize the elements of
                  the container with
   init         - initializer list to initialize the elements of the container with
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of InputIterator.

.SH Complexity

   1) constant
   2) average case linear worst case quadratic in distance between first and last
   3) linear in size of other
   4) constant. If alloc is given and alloc != other.get_allocator(), then linear.
   5) average case linear worst case quadratic in size of init

.SH Exceptions

   Calls to Allocator::allocate may throw.

.SH Notes

   
   After container move construction (overload \fB(4)\fP), references, pointers, and
   iterators (other than the end iterator) to other remain valid, but refer to elements
   that are now in *this. The current standard makes this guarantee via the blanket
   statement in ยง23.2.1[container.requirements.general]/12, and a more direct guarantee
   is under consideration via LWG 2321.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to        Behavior as published        Correct behavior
   LWG 2193 C++11      the default constructor is explicit

.SH See also

   operator= assigns values to the container
             \fI(public member function)\fP 

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
