.TH std::experimental::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource::synchronized_pool_resource 3 "2019.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource::synchronized_pool_resource \- std::experimental::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource::synchronized_pool_resource

.SH Synopsis
   synchronized_pool_resource();                                  \fB(1)\fP (library
                                                                      fundamentals TS)
   explicit synchronized_pool_resource(memory_resource*           \fB(2)\fP (library
   upstream);                                                         fundamentals TS)
   explicit synchronized_pool_resource(const pool_options& opts); \fB(3)\fP (library
                                                                      fundamentals TS)
   synchronized_pool_resource(const pool_options& opts,           \fB(4)\fP (library
                              memory_resource* upstream);             fundamentals TS)
   synchronized_pool_resource(const synchronized_pool_resource&)  \fB(5)\fP (library
   = delete;                                                          fundamentals TS)

   Constructs a synchronized_pool_resource.

   1-4) Constructs a synchronized_pool_resource using the specified upstream memory
   resource and tuned according to the specified options. The resulting object holds a
   copy of upstream but does not own the resource to which upstream points.
   The overloads not taking opts as a parameter uses a default constructed instance of
   pool_options as the options. The overloads not taking upstream as a parameter uses
   the return value of std::experimental::pmr::get_default_resource() as the upstream
   memory resource.
   5) Copy constructor is deleted.

.SH Parameters

   opts     - a pool_options struct containing the constructor options
   upstream - the upstream memory resource to use

.SH Exceptions

   1-4) Throws only if a call to the allocate() function of the upstream resource
   throws. It is unspecified if or under what conditions such a call takes place.
