.TH std::condition_variable_any::wait_for 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::condition_variable_any::wait_for \- std::condition_variable_any::wait_for

.SH Synopsis
   template< class Lock, class Rep, class Period >

   std::cv_status wait_for( Lock& lock,                             \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   const std::chrono::duration<Rep, Period>& rel_time);
   template< class Lock, class Rep, class Period, class Predicate >

   bool wait_for( Lock& lock,                                       \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   const std::chrono::duration<Rep, Period>& rel_time,

   Predicate stop_waiting);
   template< class Lock, class Rep, class Period, class Predicate >

   bool wait_for( Lock& lock,
   std::stop_token stoken,                                          \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   const std::chrono::duration<Rep, Period>& rel_time,

   Predicate stop_waiting);

   1) Atomically releases lock, blocks the current executing thread, and adds it to the
   list of threads waiting on *this. The thread will be unblocked when notify_all() or
   notify_one() is executed, or when the relative timeout rel_time expires. It may also
   be unblocked spuriously. When unblocked, regardless of the reason, lock is
   reacquired and wait_for() exits.
   2) Equivalent to return wait_until(lock, std::chrono::steady_clock::now() +
   rel_time, std::move(stop_waiting));. This overload may be used to ignore spurious
   awakenings by looping until some predicate is satisfied (bool(stop_waiting()) ==
   true).
   3) Equivalent to return wait_until(lock, std::move(stoken),
   std::chrono::steady_clock::now() + rel_time, std::move(stop_waiting));

   The standard recommends that a steady clock be used to measure the duration. This
   function may block for longer than timeout_duration due to scheduling or resource
   contention delays.

   If these functions fail to meet the postcondition (lock is locked by the calling
   thread), std::terminate is called. For example, this could happen if relocking the
   mutex throws an exception.

.SH Parameters

   lock         - an object of type Lock that meets the BasicLockable requirements,
                  which must be locked by the current thread
   stoken       - a std::stop_token to register interruption for
                  an object of type std::chrono::duration representing the maximum time
   rel_time     - to spend waiting. Note that rel_time must be small enough not to
                  overflow when added to std::chrono::steady_clock::now().
                  predicate which returns false if the waiting should be continued
                  (bool(stop_waiting()) == false).

   stop_waiting - The signature of the predicate function should be equivalent to the
                  following:

                  bool pred();

.SH Return value

   1) std::cv_status::timeout if the relative timeout specified by rel_time expired,
   std::cv_status::no_timeout otherwise.
   2) false if the predicate stop_waiting still evaluates to false after the rel_time
   timeout expired, otherwise true.
   3) stop_waiting(), regardless of whether the timeout was met or stop was requested.

.SH Exceptions

   1) Any exception thrown by clock, time_point, or duration during the execution
   (clocks, time points, and durations provided by the standard library never throw)
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP but may also propagate exceptions thrown by stop_waiting
   3) Same as \fB(2)\fP

.SH Notes

   Even if notified under lock, overload \fB(1)\fP makes no guarantees about the state of the
   associated predicate when returning due to timeout.

   The effects of notify_one()/notify_all() and each of the three atomic parts of
   wait()/wait_for()/wait_until() (unlock+wait, wakeup, and lock) take place in a
   single total order that can be viewed as modification order of an atomic variable:
   the order is specific to this individual condition variable. This makes it
   impossible for notify_one() to, for example, be delayed and unblock a thread that
   started waiting just after the call to notify_one() was made.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <atomic>
 #include <condition_variable>
 #include <thread>
 #include <chrono>
 using namespace std::chrono_literals;

 std::condition_variable_any cv;
 std::mutex cv_m;
 int i;

 void waits(int idx)
 {
     std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk(cv_m);
     if(cv.wait_for(lk, idx*100ms, []{return i == 1;}))
         std::cerr << "Thread " << idx << " finished waiting. i == " << i << '\\n';
     else
         std::cerr << "Thread " << idx << " timed out. i == " << i << '\\n';
 }

 void signals()
 {
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(120ms);
     std::cerr << "Notifying...\\n";
     cv.notify_all();
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(100ms);
     {
         std::lock_guard<std::mutex> lk(cv_m);
         i = 1;
     }
     std::cerr << "Notifying again...\\n";
     cv.notify_all();
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::thread t1(waits, 1), t2(waits, 2), t3(waits, 3), t4(signals);
     t1.join();
     t2.join();
     t3.join();
     t4.join();
 }

.SH Output:

 Thread 1 timed out. i == 0
 Notifying...
 Thread 2 timed out. i == 0
 Notifying again...
 Thread 3 finished waiting. i == 1

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to            Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 2093 C++11      timeout-related exceptions were missing in  mentioned
                       the specification
   LWG 2135 C++11      wait_for threw an exception on              calls std::terminate
                       unlocking/relocking failure

.SH See also

   wait       blocks the current thread until the condition variable is woken up
              \fI(public member function)\fP
              blocks the current thread until the condition variable is woken up or
   wait_until until specified time point has been reached
              \fI(public member function)\fP
