.TH std::basic_string::resize 3 "Apr 19 2014" "1.0.0" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   void resize( size_type count );           \fB(1)\fP
   void resize( size_type count, CharT ch ); \fB(2)\fP

   Resizes the string to contain count characters.

   If the current size is less than count, additional characters are appended.

   If the current size is greater than count, the string is reduced to its first count
   elements.

   The first version initializes new characters to CharT(), the second version
   initializes new characters to ch.

.SH Contents

     • 1 Parameters
     • 2 Return value
     • 3 Exceptions
     • 4 Example
     • 5 Complexity
     • 6 See also

.SH Parameters

   count - new size of the string
   ch    - character to initialize the new characters with

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   std::length_error if count > max_size(). Any exceptions thrown by corresponding
   Allocator.

   If an exception is thrown for any reason, this function has no effect (strong
   exception guarantee).
   \fI(since C++11)\fP

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <stdexcept>

 int main()
 {
     std::string s;

     try {
         // size is OK, no length_error
         // (may throw bad_alloc)
         s.resize(s.max_size() - 1, 'x');
     } catch (std::bad_alloc&) {
         std::cout << "1. bad alloc\\n";
     }

     try {
         // size is OK, no length_error
         // (may throw bad_alloc)
         s.resize(s.max_size(), 'x');
     } catch (std::bad_alloc& exc) {
         std::cout << "2. bad alloc\\n";
     }

     try {
         // size is BAD, throw length_error
         s.resize(s.max_size() + 1, 'x');
     } catch (std::length_error&) {
         std::cout << "3. length error\\n";
     }
 }

.SH Possible output:

 1. bad alloc
 2. bad alloc
 3. length error

.SH Complexity

   Linear in the size of the string.

.SH See also

   size   returns the number of characters
   length \fI(public member function)\fP
