.TH std::regex_iterator::regex_iterator 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::regex_iterator::regex_iterator \- std::regex_iterator::regex_iterator

.SH Synopsis
   regex_iterator();                               \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   regex_iterator( BidirIt a, BidirIt b,

   const regex_type& re,                           \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::regex_constants::match_flag_type m =

   std::regex_constants::match_default );
   regex_iterator( const regex_iterator& );        \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   regex_iterator( BidirIt, BidirIt,

   const regex_type&&,                             \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::regex_constants::match_flag_type =

   std::regex_constants::match_default ) = delete;

   Constructs a new regex_iterator:

   1) Default constructor. Constructs an end-of-sequence iterator.
   2) Constructs a regex_iterator from the sequence of characters [a, b), the regular
   expression re, and a flag m that governs matching behavior. This constructor
   performs an initial call to std::regex_search with this data. If the result of this
   initial call is false, *this is set to an end-of-sequence iterator.
   3) Copies a regex_iterator.
   4) The overload \fB(2)\fP is not allowed to be called with a temporary regex, since the
   returned iterator would be immediately invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   a  - LegacyBidirectionalIterator to the beginning of the target character sequence
   b  - LegacyBidirectionalIterator to the end of the target character sequence
   re - regular expression used to search the target character sequence
   m  - flags that govern the behavior of re

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <regex>
 #include <string_view>

 int main()
 {
     constexpr std::string_view str{"#ONE:*p=&Mass; #Two:MOV %rd,42"};
     const std::regex re("[a-w]");

     // create regex_iterator, overload (2)
     auto it = std::regex_iterator<std::string_view::iterator>{
         str.cbegin(), str.cend(),
         re // re is lvalue; if an immediate expression was used
            // instead, e.g. std::regex{"[a-z]"}, this would
            // produce an error - overload (4) is deleted
     };

     for (decltype(it) last /* overload (1) */; it != last; ++it)
         std::cout << (*it).str();
 }

.SH Output:

 password

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to    Behavior as published              Correct behavior
                       a regex_iterator constructed
   LWG 2332 C++11      from a temporary             such construction is disallowed via
                       basic_regex became invalid   a deleted overload
                       immediately
