.TH std::is_swappable_with,std::is_swappable,std::is_nothrow_swappable_with, 3 "2019.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::is_swappable_with,std::is_swappable,std::is_nothrow_swappable_with, \- std::is_swappable_with,std::is_swappable,std::is_nothrow_swappable_with,

.SH Synopsis

   Defined in header <type_traits>
   template< class T, class U >      \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   struct is_swappable_with;
   template< class T >               \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   struct is_swappable;
   template< class T, class U >      \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   struct is_nothrow_swappable_with;
   template< class T >               \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   struct is_nothrow_swappable;

   1) If the expressions swap(std::declval<T>(), std::declval<U>()) and
   swap(std::declval<U>(), std::declval<T>()) are both well-formed in unevaluated
   context after using std::swap; (see Swappable), provides the member constant value
   equal true. Otherwise, value is false. Access checks are performed as if from a
   context unrelated to either type.
   2) If T is not a referenceable type (i.e., possibly cv-qualified void or a function
   type with a cv-qualifier-seq or a ref-qualifier), provides a member constant value
   equal to false. Otherwise, provides a member constant value equal to
   std::is_swappable_with<T&, T&>::value
   3) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but evaluations of both expressions from (1) are known not to throw
   exceptions
   4) Same as \fB(2)\fP, but uses is_nothrow_swappable_with.

   T and U shall each be a complete type, (possibly cv-qualified) void, or an array of
   unknown bound. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

.SH Member constants

   value    true if T is swappable with U , false otherwise
   \fB[static]\fP \fI(public static member constant)\fP

.SH Member functions

   operator bool converts the object to bool, returns value
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator()    returns value
   \fI(C++14)\fP       \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Member types

   Type       Definition
   value_type bool
   type       std::integral_constant<bool, value>

.SH Notes

   This trait does not check anything outside the immediate context of the swap
   expressions: if the use of T or U would trigger template specializations, generation
   of implicitly-defined special member functions etc, and those have errors, the
   actual swap may not compile even if std::is_swappable_with<T,U>::value compiles and
   evaluates to true.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   swap                         swaps the values of two objects
                                \fI(function template)\fP 
   is_move_assignable
   is_trivially_move_assignable
   is_nothrow_move_assignable   checks if a type has a move assignment operator
   \fI(C++11)\fP                      \fI(class template)\fP 
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
