.TH std::vector::push_back 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::vector::push_back \- std::vector::push_back

.SH Synopsis
   void push_back( const T& value );                   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   constexpr void push_back( const T& value );         \fI(since C++20)\fP
   void push_back( T&& value );                \fB(1)\fP                   \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                   \fB(2)\fP               \fI(until C++20)\fP
   constexpr void push_back( T&& value );                            \fI(since C++20)\fP

   Appends the given element value to the end of the container.

   1) The new element is initialized as a copy of value.
   2) value is moved into the new element.

   If the new size() is greater than capacity() then all iterators and references
   (including the past-the-end iterator) are invalidated. Otherwise only the
   past-the-end iterator is invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   value             -            the value of the element to append
.SH Type requirements
   -
   T must meet the requirements of CopyInsertable in order to use overload \fB(1)\fP.
   -
   T must meet the requirements of MoveInsertable in order to use overload \fB(2)\fP.

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Complexity

   Amortized constant.

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown (which can be due to Allocator::allocate() or element
   copy/move constructor/assignment), this function has no effect (strong exception
   guarantee).

   If T's move constructor is not noexcept and T is not CopyInsertable
   into *this, vector will use the throwing move constructor. If it       \fI(since C++11)\fP
   throws, the guarantee is waived and the effects are unspecified.

.SH Notes

   Calling push_back will cause reallocation (when size()+1 > capacity()), so some
   implementations also throw std::length_error when push_back causes a reallocation
   that would exceed max_size (due to implicitly calling an equivalent of
   reserve(size()+1)).

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <vector>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <string>

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<std::string> letters;

     letters.push_back("abc");
     std::string s{"def"};
     letters.push_back(std::move(s));

     std::cout << "std::vector `letters` holds: ";
     for (auto&& e : letters) std::cout << std::quoted(e) << ' ';

     std::cout << "\\nMoved-from string `s` holds: " << std::quoted(s) << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 std::vector `letters` holds: "abc" "def"
 Moved-from string `s` holds: ""

.SH See also

   emplace_back  constructs an element in-place at the end
   \fI(C++11)\fP       \fI(public member function)\fP
   pop_back      removes the last element
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   back_inserter creates a std::back_insert_iterator of type inferred from the argument
                 \fI(function template)\fP
