.TH std::deque<T,Allocator>::emplace 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::deque<T,Allocator>::emplace \- std::deque<T,Allocator>::emplace

.SH Synopsis
   template< class... Args >                                \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iterator emplace( const_iterator pos, Args&&... args );

   Inserts a new element into the container directly before pos. The element is
   constructed through std::allocator_traits::construct, which typically uses
   placement-new to construct the element in-place at a location provided by the
   container. The arguments args... are forwarded to the constructor as
   std::forward<Args>(args)....

   All iterators, including the past-the-end iterator, are invalidated. References are
   invalidated too, unless pos == begin() or pos == end(), in which case they are not
   invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   pos            -           iterator before which the new element will be constructed
   args           -           arguments to forward to the constructor of the element
.SH Type requirements
   -
   T (the container's element type) must meet the requirements of MoveAssignable,
   MoveInsertable and EmplaceConstructible.

.SH Return value

   Iterator pointing to the emplaced element.

.SH Complexity

   Linear in the lesser of the distances between pos and either of the ends of the
   container.

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown other than by the copy constructor, move constructor,
   assignment operator, or move assignment operator of the value type, or if an
   exception is thrown while emplace is used to insert a single element at the either
   end, there are no effects \fI(strong exception guarantee)\fP.

   Otherwise, the effects are unspecified.

.SH See also

   insert inserts elements
          \fI(public member function)\fP
