.TH std::list::end,std::list::cend 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::list::end,std::list::cend \- std::list::end,std::list::cend

.SH Synopsis
   iterator end();                       \fB(1)\fP (noexcept since C++11)
   const_iterator end() const;           \fB(2)\fP (noexcept since C++11)
   const_iterator cend() const noexcept; \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Returns an iterator to the element following the last element of the list.

   This element acts as a placeholder; attempting to access it results in undefined
   behavior.

   range-begin-end.svg

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   Iterator to the element following the last element.

.SH Complexity

   Constant.

.SH Notes

   libc++ backports cend() to C++98 mode.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <numeric>
 #include <string>
 #include <list>

 int main()
 {
     std::list<int> nums{1, 2, 4, 8, 16};
     std::list<std::string> fruits{"orange", "apple", "raspberry"};
     std::list<char> empty;

     // Print list.
     std::for_each(nums.begin(), nums.end(), [](const int n) { std::cout << n << ' '; });
     std::cout << '\\n';

     // Sums all integers in the list nums (if any), printing only the result.
     std::cout << "Sum of nums: "
               << std::accumulate(nums.begin(), nums.end(), 0) << '\\n';

     // Prints the first fruit in the list fruits, checking if there is any.
     if (!fruits.empty())
         std::cout << "First fruit: " << *fruits.begin() << '\\n';

     if (empty.begin() == empty.end())
         std::cout << "list 'empty' is indeed empty.\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 1 2 4 8 16
 Sum of nums: 31
 First fruit: orange
 list 'empty' is indeed empty.

.SH See also

   begin   returns an iterator to the beginning
   cbegin  \fI(public member function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   end
   cend    returns an iterator to the end of a container or array
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function template)\fP
   \fI(C++14)\fP
