.TH std::set::count 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::set::count \- std::set::count

.SH Synopsis
   size_type count( const Key& key ) const; \fB(1)\fP
   template< class K >                      \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++14)\fP
   size_type count( const K& x ) const;

   Returns the number of elements with key that compares equivalent to the specified
   argument, which is either 1 or 0 since this container does not allow duplicates.

   1) Returns the number of elements with key key.
   2) Returns the number of elements with key that compares equivalent to the value x.
   This overload participates in overload resolution only if the qualified-id
   Compare::is_transparent is valid and denotes a type. They allow calling this
   function without constructing an instance of Key.

.SH Parameters

   key - key value of the elements to count
   x   - alternative value to compare to the keys

.SH Return value

   Number of elements with key that compares equivalent to key or x, which is either 1
   or 0 for \fB(1)\fP.

.SH Complexity

   Logarithmic in the size of the container.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <set>
 #include <iostream>

 struct S {
     int x;
     S(int i) : x{i} { std::cout << "S{" << i << "} "; }
     bool operator<(S const& s) const { return x < s.x; }
 };

 struct R {
     int x;
     R(int i) : x{i} { std::cout << "R{" << i << "} "; }
     bool operator<(R const& r) const { return x < r.x; }
 };
 bool operator<(R const& r, int i) { return r.x < i; }
 bool operator<(int i, R const& r) { return i < r.x; }

 int main()
 {
     std::set<int> t{3, 1, 4, 1, 5};
     std::cout << t.count(1) << ", " << t.count(2) << ".\\n";

     std::set<S> s{3, 1, 4, 1, 5};
     std::cout << ": " << s.count(1) << ", " << s.count(2) << ".\\n";
         // Two temporary objects S{1} and S{2} were created.
         // Comparison function object is defaulted std::less<S>,
         // which is not transparent (has no is_transparent member type).

     std::set<R, std::less<>> r{3, 1, 4, 1, 5};
     std::cout << ": " << r.count(1) << ", " << r.count(2) << ".\\n";
         // C++14 heterogeneous lookup; temporary objects were not created.
         // Comparator std::less<void> has predefined is_transparent.
 }

.SH Output:

 1, 0.
 S{3} S{1} S{4} S{1} S{5} : S{1} 1, S{2} 0.
 R{3} R{1} R{4} R{1} R{5} : 1, 0.

.SH See also

   find        finds element with specific key
               \fI(public member function)\fP
   equal_range returns range of elements matching a specific key
               \fI(public member function)\fP
