.TH std::shared_lock::try_lock_for 3 "Apr  2 2017" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::shared_lock::try_lock_for \- std::shared_lock::try_lock_for

.SH Synopsis
   template< class Rep, class Period >
   bool try_lock_for( const std::chrono::duration<Rep,Period>&            \fI(since C++14)\fP
   timeout_duration );

   Tries to lock the associated mutex in shared mode. Blocks until specified
   timeout_duration has elapsed or the lock is acquired, whichever comes first. On
   successful lock acquisition returns true, otherwise returns false. Effectively calls
   mutex()->try_lock_shared_for(timeout_duration).

   A steady clock is used to measure the duration. This function may block for longer
   than timeout_duration due to scheduling or resource contention delays.

   std::system_error is thrown if there is no associated mutex or if the mutex is
   already locked.

.SH Parameters

   timeout_duration - maximum duration to block for

.SH Return value

   true if the ownership of the mutex has been acquired successfully, false otherwise.

.SH Exceptions

     * Any exceptions thrown by mutex()->try_lock_shared_for(timeout_duration)

     * If there is no associated mutex, std::system_error with an error code of
       std::errc::operation_not_permitted

     * If the mutex is already locked, std::system_error with an error code of
       std::errc::resource_deadlock_would_occur

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

                  attempts to lock the associated TimedLockable mutex, returns if the
   try_lock_for   mutex has been unavailable for the specified time duration
                  \fI(public member function of std::unique_lock)\fP
   lock           locks the associated mutex
                  \fI(public member function)\fP
   try_lock       tries to lock the associated mutex
                  \fI(public member function)\fP
   try_lock_until tries to lock the associated mutex, until a specified time point
                  \fI(public member function)\fP
   unlock         unlocks the associated mutex
                  \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
