.TH std::tmpfile 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::tmpfile \- std::tmpfile

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdio>
   std::FILE* tmpfile();

   Creates and opens a temporary file with a unique auto-generated filename.

   The file is opened as a binary file for update (as by std::fopen with access mode
   "wb+"). At least TMP_MAX files may be opened during the lifetime of a program (this
   limit may be shared with std::tmpnam and may be further limited by FOPEN_MAX).

   If the program closes the file, e.g. by executing std::fclose, the file is
   automatically deleted.

   If the program terminates normally (by calling std::exit, returning from main, etc),
   all files that were opened by calling std::tmpfile are also automatically deleted.

   If the program terminates abnormally, it is implementation-defined if these
   temporary files are deleted.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   The associated file stream or a null pointer if an error has occurred.

.SH Notes

   On some implementations (e.g. older Linux), this function actually creates, opens,
   and immediately deletes the file from the file system: as long as an open file
   descriptor to a deleted file is held by a program, the file exists, but since it was
   deleted, its name does not appear in any directory, so that no other process can
   open it. Once the file descriptor is closed, or once the program terminates
   (normally or abnormally), the space occupied by the file is reclaimed by the
   filesystem. Newer Linux (since 3.11 or later, depending on filesystem) creates such
   invisible temporary files in one step, via special flag in the open() syscall.

   On some implementations (e.g. Windows), elevated privileges are required as the
   function may create the temporary file in a system directory.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cstdio>
 #include <cstdlib>
 #include <filesystem>
 #include <iostream>
 namespace fs = std::filesystem;

 int main()
 {
     std::cout << "TMP_MAX = " << TMP_MAX << '\\n'
               << "FOPEN_MAX = " << FOPEN_MAX << '\\n';
     std::FILE* tmpf = std::tmpfile();
     std::fputs("Hello, world", tmpf);
     std::rewind(tmpf);
     char buf[6];
     std::fgets(buf, sizeof buf, tmpf);
     std::cout << buf << '\\n';

     // Linux-specific method to display the tmpfile name
     std::cout << fs::read_symlink(
                      fs::path("/proc/self/fd") / std::to_string(fileno(tmpf))
                  ) << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 TMP_MAX = 238328
 FOPEN_MAX = 16
 Hello
 "/tmp/tmpfBlY1lI (deleted)"

.SH See also

   tmpnam              returns a unique filename
                       \fI(function)\fP
   temp_directory_path returns a directory suitable for temporary files
   \fI(C++17)\fP             \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   tmpfile
