.TH std::incrementable_traits 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::incrementable_traits \- std::incrementable_traits

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <iterator>
   template< class I >                                                \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   struct incrementable_traits { };
   template< class T >

   requires std::is_object_v<T>                                       \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   struct incrementable_traits<T*>;
   template< class T >
   struct incrementable_traits<const T> : incrementable_traits<T> {   \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   };
   template< class T >

   requires requires { typename T::difference_type; }                 \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   struct incrementable_traits<T>;
   template< class T >

   requires (!requires { typename T::difference_type; }) &&           \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   requires(const T& a, const T& b) { { a - b } -> Integral; }

   struct incrementable_traits<T>;

   Computes the associated difference type of the type I, if any. Users may specialize
   incrementable_traits for a program-defined type.

   1) Primary template is an empty struct.
   2) Specialization for pointers. Provides a member type difference_type equal to
   std::ptrdiff_t.
   3) Specialization for const-qualified types.
   4) Specialization for types that define a public and accessible member type
   difference_type. Provides a member type difference_type equal to T::difference_type.
   5) Specialization for types that do not define a public and accessible member type
   difference_type but do support subtraction. Provides a member type difference_type
   equal to std::make_signed_t<decltype(std::declval<T>() - std::declval<T>())>. The
   implicit expression variations rule (see below) applies to the expression a - b.

  Implicit expression variations

   A requires-expression that uses an expression that is non-modifying for some
   constant lvalue operand also implicitly requires additional variations of that
   expression that accept a non-constant lvalue or (possibly constant) rvalue for the
   given operand unless such an expression variation is explicitly required with
   differing semantics. These implicit expression variations must meet the same
   semantic requirements of the declared expression. The extent to which an
   implementation validates the syntax of the variations is unspecified.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

                           specifies that a Semiregular type can be incremented with
   WeaklyIncrementable     pre- and post-increment operators
                           (concept)
   iter_value_t
   iter_reference_t        computes the associate types of an iterator
   iter_difference_t       (alias template)
   iter_rvalue_reference_t
   iter_common_reference_t
   iterator_traits         provides uniform interface to the properties of an iterator
                           \fI(class template)\fP
