.TH std::has_facet 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::has_facet \- std::has_facet

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <locale>
   template< class Facet >
   bool has_facet( const locale& loc );

   Checks if the locale loc implements the facet Facet.

.SH Parameters

   loc - the locale object to query

.SH Return value

   Returns true if the facet Facet was installed in the locale loc, false otherwise.

.SH Exceptions

   \fI(none)\fP                    \fI(until C++11)\fP
   noexcept specification:  
   noexcept                  \fI(since C++11)\fP
     

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <locale>
  
 // minimal custom facet
 struct myfacet : public std::locale::facet {
     static std::locale::id id;
 };
  
 std::locale::id myfacet::id;
  
 int main()
 {
     // loc is a "C" locale with myfacet added
     std::locale loc(std::locale::classic(), new myfacet);
     std::cout << std::boolalpha
               << "Can loc classify chars? "
               << std::has_facet<std::ctype<char>>(loc) << '\\n'
               << "Can loc classify char32_t? "
               << std::has_facet<std::ctype<char32_t>>(loc) << '\\n'
               << "Does loc implement myfacet? "
               << std::has_facet<myfacet>(loc) << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 Can loc classify chars? true
 Can loc classify char32_t? false
 Does loc implement myfacet? true

.SH See also

   locale    set of polymorphic facets that encapsulate cultural differences
             \fI(class)\fP 
   use_facet obtains a facet from a locale
             \fI(function template)\fP 

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept

   Hidden categories:

     * Pages with unreviewed unconditional noexcept template
     * Pages with unreviewed noexcept template
