.TH std::chrono::high_resolution_clock 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::high_resolution_clock \- std::chrono::high_resolution_clock

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <chrono>
   class high_resolution_clock;  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Class std::chrono::high_resolution_clock represents the clock with the smallest tick
   period provided by the implementation. It may be an alias of
   std::chrono::system_clock or std::chrono::steady_clock, or a third, independent
   clock.

   std::chrono::high_resolution_clock meets the requirements of TrivialClock.

.SH Member types

   Member type Definition
   rep         arithmetic type representing the number of ticks in the clock's duration
   period      a std::ratio type representing the tick period of the clock, in seconds
   duration    std::chrono::duration<rep, period>
   time_point  std::chrono::time_point<std::chrono::high_resolution_clock>

.SH Member constants

                            true if the time between ticks is always constant, i.e.
   constexpr bool is_steady calls to now() return values that increase monotonically
   \fB[static]\fP                 even in case of some external clock adjustment, otherwise
                            false
                            \fI(public static member constant)\fP

.SH Member functions

   now      returns a std::chrono::time_point representing the current value of the
   \fB[static]\fP clock
            \fI(public static member function)\fP

.SH Notes

   The high_resolution_clock is not implemented consistently across different standard
   library implementations, and its use should be avoided. It is often just an alias
   for std::chrono::steady_clock or std::chrono::system_clock, but which one it is
   depends on the library or configuration. When it is a system_clock, it is not
   monotonic (e.g., the time can go backwards). For example, for gcc's libstdc++ it is
   system_clock, for MSVC it is steady_clock, and for clang's libc++ it depends on
   configuration.

   Generally one should just use std::chrono::steady_clock or std::chrono::system_clock
   directly instead of std::chrono::high_resolution_clock: use steady_clock for
   duration measurements, and system_clock for wall-clock time.

.SH See also

   system_clock wall clock time from the system-wide realtime clock
   \fI(C++11)\fP      \fI(class)\fP
   steady_clock monotonic clock that will never be adjusted
   \fI(C++11)\fP      \fI(class)\fP
