.TH std::counting_semaphore,std::binary_semaphore 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::counting_semaphore,std::binary_semaphore \- std::counting_semaphore,std::binary_semaphore

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <semaphore>
   template<std::ptrdiff_t LeastMaxValue = /* implementation-defined
   */>                                                                \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   class counting_semaphore;
   using binary_semaphore = std::counting_semaphore<1>;               \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   1) A counting_semaphore is a lightweight synchronization primitive that can control
   access to a shared resource. Unlike a std::mutex, a counting_semaphore allows more
   than one concurrent access to the same resource, for at least LeastMaxValue
   concurrent accessors. The program is ill-formed if LeastMaxValue is negative.
   2) binary_semaphore is an alias for specialization of std::counting_semaphore with
   LeastMaxValue being 1. Implementations may implement binary_semaphore more
   efficiently than the default implementation of std::counting_semaphore.

   A counting_semaphore contains an internal counter initialized by the constructor.
   This counter is decremented by calls to acquire() and related methods, and is
   incremented by calls to release(). When the counter is zero, acquire() blocks until
   the counter is incremented, but try_acquire() does not block; try_acquire_for() and
   try_acquire_until() block until the counter is incremented or a timeout is reached.

   Similar to std::condition_variable's wait(), counting_semaphore's try_acquire() can
   spuriously fail.

   Specializations of std::counting_semaphore are not DefaultConstructible,
   CopyConstructible, MoveConstructible, CopyAssignable, or MoveAssignable.

.SH Member functions

   constructor       constructs a counting_semaphore
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   destructor        destructs the counting_semaphore
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=         counting_semaphore is not assignable
   [deleted]         \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Operations
   release           increments the internal counter and unblocks acquirers
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   acquire           decrements the internal counter or blocks until it can
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   try_acquire       tries to decrement the internal counter without blocking
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
                     tries to decrement the internal counter, blocking for up to a
   try_acquire_for   duration time
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
                     tries to decrement the internal counter, blocking until a point in
   try_acquire_until time
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Constants
   max               returns the maximum possible value of the internal counter
   \fB[static]\fP          \fI(public static member function)\fP

.SH Notes

   As its name indicates, the LeastMaxValue is the minimum max value, not the actual
   max value. Thus max() can yield a number larger than LeastMaxValue.

   Unlike std::mutex a counting_semaphore is not tied to threads of execution -
   acquiring a semaphore can occur on a different thread than releasing the semaphore,
   for example. All operations on counting_semaphore can be performed concurrently and
   without any relation to specific threads of execution, with the exception of the
   destructor which cannot be performed concurrently but can be performed on a
   different thread.

   Semaphores are also often used for the semantics of signalling/notifying rather than
   mutual exclusion, by initializing the semaphore with 0 and thus blocking the
   receiver(s) that try to acquire(), until the notifier "signals" by invoking
   release(n). In this respect semaphores can be considered alternatives to
   std::condition_variables, often with better performance.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
