.TH std::experimental::filesystem::u8path 3 "Jun 28 2014" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   template< class Source >                    \fB(1)\fP (filesystem TS)
   path u8path( const Source& source );
   template< class InputIt >                   \fB(2)\fP (filesystem TS)
   path u8path( InputIt first, InputIt last );

   Creates an UTF-8 path from the given UTF-8 encoded char-based sources.

   If value_type is char and the current native narrow encoding is UTF-8, returns
   path(source) or path(begin, end).

   Otherwise, if value_type is wchar_t and the native wide encoding is UTF-16, or if
   value_type is char16_t or char32_t, converts source or the range [first, last) to a
   temporary value of type string_type and returns a path constructed from that value.

   Otherwise, converts source or the range [first, last) to a temporary value of type
   std::u32string and returns a path constructed from that value.

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: argument format conversion

   It is unspecified how Unicode encoding conversions are performed.

.SH Parameters

                                        a character sequence to construct the path
   source                  -            from.

                                         This section is incomplete
                                        a range to construct the path from.
   first, last             -
                                         This section is incomplete
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of InputIterator.
   -
   The value type of InputIt must be one of the encoded character types (char, wchar_t,
   char16_t and char32_t)

.SH Return value

   A newly constructed UTF-8 encoded path.

.SH Exceptions

   \fI(none)\fP

   Categories:

     * Todo with reason
     * Todo without reason
