.TH std::valarray::operator+,-,~,! 3 "Apr 19 2014" "1.0.0" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   valarray<T> operator+() const;    \fB(1)\fP
   valarray<T> operator-() const;    \fB(2)\fP
   valarray<T> operator~() const;    \fB(3)\fP
   valarray<bool> operator!() const; \fB(4)\fP

   Applies unary operators to each element in the numeric array.

.SH Contents

     • 1 Parameters
     • 2 Return value
     • 3 Exceptions
     • 4 Notes

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   A numeric array containing elements with values obtained by applying corresponding
   operator to the values in *this.

.SH Exceptions

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Notes

   Each of the operators can only be instantiated if the following requirements are
   met:

     • The indicated operator can be applied to type T
     • The result value can be unambiguously converted to T (1-3) or bool \fB(4)\fP.

   The function can be implemented with the return type different from std::valarray.
   In this case, the replacement type has the following properties:

     • All const member functions of std::valarray are provided.
     • std::valarray, std::slice_array, std::gslice_array, std::mask_array and
       std::indirect_array can be constructed from the replacement type.
     • All functions accepting a arguments of type const std::valarray& should also
       accept the replacement type.
     • All functions accepting two arguments of type const std::valarray& should accept
       every combination of const std::valarray& and the replacement type.
     • The return type does not add more than two levels of template nesting over the
       most deeply-nested argument type.
