.TH std::deque::pop_back 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::deque::pop_back \- std::deque::pop_back

.SH Synopsis
   void pop_back();

   Removes the last element of the container.

   Calling pop_back on an empty container results in undefined behavior.

   Iterators and references to the erased element are invalidated. It is
   unspecified whether the past-the-end iterator is invalidated. Other    \fI(until C++11)\fP
   references and iterators are not affected.
   Iterators and references to the erased element are invalidated. The
   past-the-end iterator is also invalidated. Other references and        \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iterators are not affected.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Complexity

   Constant.

.SH Exceptions

   Throws nothing.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <deque>
 #include <iostream>

 template<typename T>
 void print(T const & xs)
 {
     std::cout << "[ ";
     for(auto const & x : xs) {
         std::cout << x << ' ';
     }
     std::cout << "]\\n";
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::deque<int> numbers;

     print(numbers);

     numbers.push_back(5);
     numbers.push_back(3);
     numbers.push_back(4);

     print(numbers);

     numbers.pop_back();

     print(numbers);
 }

.SH Output:

 [ ]
 [ 5 3 4 ]
 [ 5 3 ]

.SH See also

   pop_front removes the first element
             \fI(public member function)\fP
   push_back adds an element to the end
             \fI(public member function)\fP
