.TH std::experimental::function<R(Args...)>::function 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::function<R(Args...)>::function \- std::experimental::function<R(Args...)>::function

.SH Synopsis
   function() noexcept;                                  \fB(1)\fP  (library fundamentals TS)
   function( std::nullptr_t ) noexcept;                  \fB(2)\fP  (library fundamentals TS)
   function( const function& other );                    \fB(3)\fP  (library fundamentals TS)
   function( function&& other );                         \fB(4)\fP  (library fundamentals TS)
   template< class F >                                   \fB(5)\fP  (library fundamentals TS)
   function( F f );
   template< class Alloc >
   function( std::allocator_arg_t, const Alloc& alloc )  \fB(6)\fP  (library fundamentals TS)
   noexcept;
   template< class Alloc >

   function( std::allocator_arg_t, const Alloc& alloc,   \fB(7)\fP  (library fundamentals TS)

   std::nullptr_t ) noexcept;
   template< class Alloc >

   function( std::allocator_arg_t, const Alloc& alloc,   \fB(8)\fP  (library fundamentals TS)

   const function& other );
   template< class Alloc >

   function( std::allocator_arg_t, const Alloc& alloc,   \fB(9)\fP  (library fundamentals TS)

   function&& other );
   template< class F, class Alloc >
   function( std::allocator_arg_t, const Alloc& alloc, F \fB(10)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   f );

   Constructs a std::experimental::function from a variety of sources.

   1-2) Creates an empty function.
   3-4) Copies \fB(3)\fP or moves \fB(4)\fP the target of other to the target of *this. If other is
   empty, *this will be empty after the call too.
   5) Initializes the target with a copy of f. If f is a null pointer to function or
   null pointer to member, *this will be empty after the call. This constructor does
   not participate in overload resolution unless f is Callable for argument types
   Args... and return type R.
   6-10) Same as (1-5) except that alloc is used to allocate memory for any internal
   data structures that the function might use. These constructors treat alloc as a
   type-erased allocator (see below).

   When the target is a function pointer or a std::reference_wrapper, small object
   optimization is guaranteed, that is, these targets are always directly stored inside
   the std::experimental::function object, no dynamic allocation takes place. Other
   large objects may be constructed in dynamic allocated storage and accessed by the
   std::experimental::function object through a pointer.

   If a constructor moves or copies a function object, including an instance of
   std::experimental::function, then that move or copy is performed by using-allocator
   construction with allocator this->get_memory_resource().

  Type-erased allocator

   The constructors of function taking an allocator argument alloc treats that argument
   as a type-erased allocator. The memory resource pointer used by function to allocate
   memory is determined using the allocator argument (if specified) as follows:

Type of alloc                                 value of the memory resource pointer
Non-existent (no allocator specified at time  The value of std::experimental::pmr::get_default_resource()
of construction)                              at time of construction.
std::nullptr_t                                The value of std::experimental::pmr::get_default_resource()
                                              at time of construction
A pointer type convertible to                 static_cast<std::experimental::pmr::memory_resource*>(alloc)
std::experimental::pmr::memory_resource*
A specialization of                           alloc.resource()
std::experimental::pmr::polymorphic_allocator
                                              A pointer to a value of type
Any other type meeting the Allocator          std::experimental::pmr::resource_adaptor<A>(alloc), where A
requirements                                  is the type of alloc. The pointer remains valid only for the
                                              lifetime of the function object.
None of the above                             The program is ill-formed.

.SH Parameters

   other    -   the function object used to initialize *this
   f        -   a callable used to initialize *this
   alloc    -   an allocator used for internal memory allocation
.SH Type requirements
   -
   F must meet the requirements of Callable and CopyConstructible.

.SH Exceptions

   3,8) does not throw if other's target is a function pointer or a
   std::reference_wrapper, otherwise may throw std::bad_alloc or any exception thrown
   by the copy constructor of the stored callable object.
   4) \fI(none)\fP
   5,10) does not throw if f is a function pointer or a std::reference_wrapper,
   otherwise may throw std::bad_alloc or any exception thrown by the copy constructor
   of the stored callable object.
   9) \fI(none)\fP

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example
