.TH std::ranges::iter_swap 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::iter_swap \- std::ranges::iter_swap

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <iterator>
   inline namespace /*unspecified*/ {

   inline constexpr /*unspecified*/ iter_swap =            \fI(since C++20)\fP
   /*unspecified*/;                                        (customization point object)

   }
   Call signature
   template< class I1, class I2 >

   requires /* see below */                                \fI(since C++20)\fP

   constexpr void iter_swap( I1&& i1, I2&& i2 )
   noexcept(/* see below */);

   Swaps values denoted by two iterators.

   A call to ranges::iter_swap is expression-equivalent to:

    1. (void)iter_swap(std::forward<I1>(i1), std::forward<I2>(i2)), if either
       std::remove_cvref_t<I1> or std::remove_cvref_t<I2> is a class or enumeration
       type and the expression is well-formed in unevaluated context, where the
       overload resolution is performed with the following candidates:

          * void iter_swap(auto, auto) = delete;
          * any declarations of iter_swap found by argument-dependent lookup.

                    If the selected overload does not exchange the value denoted by i1
                    and i2, the program is ill-formed, no diagnostic required.

    2. otherwise, ranges::swap(*std::forward<I1>(i1), *std::forward<I2>(i2)) if both I1
       and I2 model indirectly_readable and if std::iter_reference_t<I1> and
       std::iter_reference_t<I2> model swappable_with.
    3. otherwise, (void)(*std::forward<I1>(i1) =
       /*iter_exchange_move*/(std::forward<I2>(i2), std::forward<I1>(i1))), if I1 and
       I2 model std::indirectly_movable_storable<I1, I2> and
       std::indirectly_movable_storable<I2, I1>, where iter_exchange_move is an
       expositon-only function template described below.

   In all other cases, a call to ranges::iter_swap is ill-formed, which can result in
   substitution failure when ranges::iter_swap(e1, e2) appears in the immediate context
   of a template instantiation.

   The exposition-only function template iter_exchange_move is equivalently defined as:

 template<class X, class Y>
 constexpr std::iter_value_t<X> /*iter_exchange_move*/(X&& x, Y&& y)
     noexcept(noexcept(std::iter_value_t<X>(std::ranges::iter_move(x)) &&
              noexcept(*x = std::ranges::iter_move(y))))
 {
     std::iter_value_t<X> old(std::ranges::iter_move(x));
     *x = std::ranges::iter_move(y);
     return old;
 }

  Expression-equivalent

   Expression e is expression-equivalent to expression f, if e and f have the same
   effects, either are both potentially-throwing or are both not potentially-throwing
   (i.e. noexcept(e) == noexcept(f)), and either are both constant subexpressions or
   are both not constant subexpressions.

  Customization point objects

   The name ranges::iter_swap denotes a customization point object, which is a const
   function object of a literal semiregular class type. For exposition purposes, the
   cv-unqualified version of its type is denoted as __iter_swap_fn.

   All instances of __iter_swap_fn are equal. The effects of invoking different
   instances of type __iter_swap_fn on the same arguments are equivalent, regardless of
   whether the expression denoting the instance is an lvalue or rvalue, and is
   const-qualified or not (however, a volatile-qualified instance is not required to be
   invocable). Thus, ranges::iter_swap can be copied freely and its copies can be used
   interchangeably.

   Given a set of types Args..., if std::declval<Args>()... meet the requirements for
   arguments to ranges::iter_swap above, __iter_swap_fn models
   std::invocable<__iter_swap_fn, Args...>, std::invocable<const __iter_swap_fn,
   Args...>, std::invocable<__iter_swap_fn&, Args...>, and std::invocable<const
   __iter_swap_fn&, Args...>. Otherwise, no function call operator of __iter_swap_fn
   participates in overload resolution.

.SH See also

   iter_swap swaps the objects pointed to by two adjusted underlying iterators
   (C++20)   \fI(function template)\fP
   iter_swap swaps the objects pointed to by two underlying iterators
   (C++20)   \fI(function template)\fP
   iter_swap swaps the elements pointed to by two iterators
             \fI(function template)\fP
