.TH std::experimental::unique_resource::unique_resource 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::unique_resource::unique_resource \- std::experimental::unique_resource::unique_resource

.SH Synopsis
   unique_resource();                                  \fB(1)\fP (library fundamentals TS v3)
   template <class RR, class DD>
   unique_resource( RR&& r, DD&& d ) noexcept(/*see    \fB(2)\fP (library fundamentals TS v3)
   below*/)
   unique_resource( unique_resource&& other );         \fB(3)\fP (library fundamentals TS v3)

   Follow items are used for explanatory purpose:

     * RS is the type of stored resource handle.
     * The expression res_ refers the underlying resource handle.
     * del_ refers the deleter object.

   1) Default constructor. Value-initializes the stored resource handle and the
   deleter. The constructed unique_resource does not own the resource.
   This overload participates in overload resolution only if both
   std::is_default_constructible_v<R> and std::is_default_constructible_v<D> are true.
   2) The stored resource handle is initialized with std::forward<RR>(r) if
   std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<RS, RR> is true, otherwise r. If initialization of
   the stored resource handle throws an exception, calls d(r).
   Then, the deleter is initialized with std::forward<DD>(d) if
   std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<D, DD> is true, otherwise d. If initialization of
   deleter throws an exception, calls d(res_).
   The constructed unique_resource owns the resource.
   This overload participates in overload resolution only if all of
   std::is_constructible_v<RS, RR>, std::is_constructible_v<D , DD>,
   std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<RS, RR> || std::is_constructible_v<RS, RR&> and
   std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<D, DD> || std::is_constructible_v<D, DD&> are true.
   The program is ill-formed if any of the expressions d(r), d(res_) and del_(res_) is
   ill-formed.
   The behavior is undefined if any of the expressions d(r), d(res_) and del_(res_)
   results in undefined behavior or throws an exception.
   3) Move constructor. The stored resource handle is initialized from the one of
   other, using std::move if std::is_nothrow_move_constructible_v<RS> is true. If
   initialization of the stored resource handle throws an exception, other is not
   modified.
   Then, the deleter is initialized with the one of other, using std::move if
   std::is_nothrow_move_constructible_v<D> is true. If initialization of the deleter
   throws an exception and std::is_nothrow_move_constructible_v<RS> is true and other
   owns the resource, calls the deleter of other with res_ to dispose the resource,
   then calls other.release().
   After construction, the constructed unique_resource owns its resource if and only if
   other owned the resource before the construction, and other is set to not own the
   resource.

.SH Parameters

   r     - a resouce handle
   d     - a deleter to use to dispose the resource
   other - another unique_resource to acquire the ownership from

.SH Exceptions

   Any exception thrown during initialization of the stored resource handle or the
   deleter.

   2)
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept((

   std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<RS, RR> || std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<RS, RR&>
   ) &&
   (
   std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<D, DD> || std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<D, DD&>

   ))
   3)
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(

   std::is_nothrow_move_constructible_v<R1> && std::is_nothrow_move_constructible_v<D>

   )

.SH Notes

   The mechanism of these constructors ensures no leaking of resources.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   constructor   constructs a new unique_ptr
                 \fI(public member function of std::unique_ptr<T,Deleter>)\fP
