.TH std::basic_string::find_last_not_of 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_string::find_last_not_of \- std::basic_string::find_last_not_of

.SH Synopsis
   size_type find_last_not_of( const basic_string& str,         (noexcept since C++11)
                               size_type pos = npos )       \fB(1)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   const;
   size_type find_last_not_of( const CharT* s,
                               size_type pos, size_type     \fB(2)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   count ) const;
   size_type find_last_not_of( const CharT* s, size_type    \fB(3)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   pos = npos ) const;
   size_type find_last_not_of( CharT ch, size_type pos =    \fB(4)\fP (noexcept since C++11)
   npos ) const;                                                (constexpr since C++20)
   template< class StringViewLike >

   size_type                                                    \fI(since C++17)\fP
       find_last_not_of( const StringViewLike& t,           \fB(5)\fP (constexpr since C++20)

                         size_type pos = npos ) const
   noexcept(/* see below */);

   Finds the last character equal to none of the characters in the given character
   sequence. The search considers only the range [0, pos]. If all characters in the
   range can be found in the given character sequence, npos will be returned.

   1) Finds the last character equal to none of characters in str.
   2) Finds the last character equal to none of characters in the range [s, s + count).
   This range can include null characters.
   If [s, s + count) is not a valid range, the behavior is undefined.
   3) Finds the last character equal to none of characters in character string pointed
   to by s. The length of the string is determined by the first null character using
   Traits::length(s).
   If [s, s + Traits::length(s)) is not a valid range, the behavior is undefined.
   4) Finds the last character not equal to ch.
   5) Implicitly converts t to a string view sv as if by std::basic_string_view<CharT,
   Traits> sv = t;, then finds the last character equal to none of characters in sv.
   This overload participates in overload resolution only if
   std::is_convertible_v<const StringViewLike&,
                         std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>> is true and
   std::is_convertible_v<const StringViewLike&, const CharT*> is false.

   In all cases, equality is checked by calling Traits::eq.

.SH Parameters

   str   - string identifying characters to search for
   pos   - position at which to end search
   count - length of character string identifying characters to search for
   s     - pointer to a character string identifying characters to search for
   ch    - character identifying characters to search for
   t     - object (convertible to std::basic_string_view) identifying characters to
           search for

.SH Return value

   Position of the found character or npos if no such character is found.

.SH Exceptions

   1,4) Throws nothing.
   5)
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(std::is_nothrow_convertible_v<
       const T&, std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>>)

   If an exception is thrown for any reason, this function has no effect (strong
   exception safety guarantee).

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>

 void show_pos(const std::string& str, std::string::size_type found)
 {
     if (found != std::string::npos)
         std::cout << '[' << found << "] = \\'" << str[found] << "\\'\\n";
     else
         std::cout << "not found\\n";
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::string str{"abc_123"};
     char const* skip_set{"0123456789"};
     std::string::size_type str_last_pos{std::string::npos};

     show_pos(str, str.find_last_not_of(skip_set)); // [3] = '_'

     str_last_pos = 2;
     show_pos(str, str.find_last_not_of(skip_set, str_last_pos)); // [2] = 'c'

     str_last_pos = 2;
     show_pos(str, str.find_last_not_of('c', str_last_pos)); // [1] = 'b'

     const char arr[]{'3', '4', '5'};
     show_pos(str, str.find_last_not_of(arr)); // [5] = '2'

     str_last_pos = 2;
     std::string::size_type skip_set_size{4};
     show_pos(str, str.find_last_not_of(skip_set,
                                        str_last_pos,
                                        skip_set_size)); // [2] = 'c'

     show_pos(str, str.find_last_not_of("abc")); // [6] = '3'

     str_last_pos = 2;
     show_pos(str, str.find_last_not_of("abc", str_last_pos)); // not found
 }

.SH Output:

 [3] = '_'
 [2] = 'c'
 [1] = 'b'
 [5] = '2'
 [2] = 'c'
 [6] = '3'
 not found

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to        Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 141  C++98      overload \fB(1)\fP could only return npos  the search range is
                       if pos >= size()                     [0, size()) in this case
   LWG 847  C++98      there was no exception safety        added strong exception
                       guarantee                            safety guarantee
   LWG 2064 C++11      overloads (3,4) were noexcept        removed
   LWG 2946 C++17      overload \fB(5)\fP caused ambiguity in     avoided by making it a
                       some cases                           template
            C++11      noexcept for overloads (4,5) were
   P1148R0  C++17      accidentally dropped by              restored
                       LWG2064/LWG2946

.SH See also

   find              finds the first occurrence of the given substring
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   rfind             find the last occurrence of a substring
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_first_of     find first occurrence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_first_not_of find first absence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   find_last_of      find last occurrence of characters
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
                     find last absence of characters
   find_last_not_of  \fI(public member function of std::basic_string_view<CharT,Traits>)\fP


.SH Category:
     * conditionally noexcept
