.TH std::experimental::filesystem::create_directory, 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::filesystem::create_directory, \- std::experimental::filesystem::create_directory,

.SH Synopsis

   Defined in header <experimental/filesystem>
   bool create_directory( const path& p );                          \fB(1)\fP (filesystem TS)
   bool create_directory( const path& p, error_code& ec );
   bool create_directory( const path& p, const path& existing_p );
   bool create_directory( const path& p, const path& existing_p,    \fB(2)\fP (filesystem TS)
   error_code& ec );
   bool create_directories( const path& p );                        \fB(3)\fP (filesystem TS)
   bool create_directories( const path& p, error_code& ec );

   1) Creates the directory p as if by POSIX mkdir() with a second argument of
   static_cast<int>(fs::perms::all) (the parent directory must already exist). If p
   already exists and is already a directory, the function does nothing (this condition
   is not treated as an error).
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, except that the attributes of the new directory are copied from
   existing_p (which must be a directory that exists). It is OS-dependent which
   attributes are copied: on POSIX systems, the attributes are copied as if by

 stat(existing_p.c_str(), &attributes_stat)
 mkdir(p.c_str(), attributes_stat.st_mode)

   On Windows OS, the attributes are copied as if by

 CreateDirectoryExW(existing_p.c_str(), p.c_str(), 0)

   3) Executes \fB(1)\fP for every element of p that does not already exist.

   The non-throwing overloads return false if any error occurs.

.SH Parameters

   p          - the path to the new directory to create
   existing_p - the path to a directory to copy the attributes from
   ec         - out-parameter for error reporting in the non-throwing overload

.SH Return value

   1,2) true if directory creation is successful, false otherwise.

.SH Exceptions

   1,3) The overload that does not take a error_code& parameter throws filesystem_error
   on underlying OS API errors, constructed with p as the first argument and the OS
   error code as the error code argument. std::bad_alloc may be thrown if memory
   allocation fails. The overload taking a error_code& parameter sets it to the OS API
   error code if an OS API call fails, and executes ec.clear() if no errors occur. This
   overload has
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept
   2) The overload that does not take a error_code& parameter throws filesystem_error
   on underlying OS API errors, constructed with p as the first argument, existing_p as
   the second argument, and the OS error code as the error code argument.
   std::bad_alloc may be thrown if memory allocation fails. The overload taking a
   error_code& parameter sets it to the OS API error code if an OS API call fails, and
   executes ec.clear() if no errors occur. This overload has
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept

.SH Notes

   The attribute-preserving overload \fB(2)\fP is implicitly invoked by copy() when
   recursively copying directories. Its equivalent in boost.filesystem is
   copy_directory (with argument order reversed)

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <fstream>
 #include <cstdlib>
 #include <experimental/filesystem>
 namespace fs = std::experimental::filesystem;

 int main()
 {
     fs::create_directories("sandbox/1/2/a");
     fs::create_directory("sandbox/1/2/b");
     fs::permissions("sandbox/1/2/b", fs::perms::remove_perms | fs::perms::others_all);
     fs::create_directory("sandbox/1/2/c", "sandbox/1/2/b");
     std::system("ls -l sandbox/1/2");
     fs::remove_all("sandbox");
 }

.SH Possible output:

 drwxr-xr-x 2 user group 4096 Apr 15 09:33 a
 drwxr-x--- 2 user group 4096 Apr 15 09:33 b
 drwxr-x--- 2 user group 4096 Apr 15 09:33 c

.SH See also

   create_symlink           creates a symbolic link
   create_directory_symlink \fI(function)\fP
   copy                     copies files or directories
                            \fI(function)\fP
   perms                    identifies file system permissions
                            \fI(enum)\fP

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept

   Hidden categories:

     * Pages with unreviewed unconditional noexcept template
     * Pages with unreviewed noexcept template
