.TH std::ranges::iter_move 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::iter_move \- std::ranges::iter_move

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <iterator>
   inline namespace /*unspecified*/ {

   inline constexpr /*unspecified*/ iter_move =            \fI(since C++20)\fP
   /*unspecified*/;                                        (customization point object)

   }
   Call signature
   template< class T >

   requires /* see below */

   constexpr decltype(auto) iter_move(T&& t) noexcept(/*
   see below */);

   Obtains an rvalue reference or a prvalue temporary from a given iterator.

   A call to ranges::iter_move is expression-equivalent to:

    1. iter_move(std::forward<T>(t)), if std::remove_cvref_t<T> is a class or
       enumeration type and the expression is well-formed in unevaluated context, where
       the overload resolution is performed with the following candidates:

          * void iter_move();
          * any declarations of iter_move found by argument-dependent lookup.

    2. otherwise, std::move(*std::forward<T>(t)) if *std::forward<T>(t) is well-formed
       and is an lvalue,
    3. otherwise, *std::forward<T>(t) if *std::forward<T>(t) is well-formed and is an
.SH rvalue.

   In all other cases, a call to ranges::iter_move is ill-formed, which can result in
   substitution failure when ranges::iter_move(e) appears in the immediate context of a
   template instantiation.

   If ranges::iter_move(e) is not equal to *e, the program is ill-formed, no diagnostic
   required.

  Expression-equivalent

   Expression e is expression-equivalent to expression f, if e and f have the same
   effects, either are both potentially-throwing or are both not potentially-throwing
   (i.e. noexcept(e) == noexcept(f)), and either are both constant subexpressions or
   are both not constant subexpressions.

  Customization point objects

   The name ranges::iter_move denotes a customization point object, which is a const
   function object of a literal semiregular class type. For exposition purposes, the
   cv-unqualified version of its type is denoted as __iter_move_fn.

   All instances of __iter_move_fn are equal. The effects of invoking different
   instances of type __iter_move_fn on the same arguments are equivalent, regardless of
   whether the expression denoting the instance is an lvalue or rvalue, and is
   const-qualified or not (however, a volatile-qualified instance is not required to be
   invocable). Thus, ranges::iter_move can be copied freely and its copies can be used
   interchangeably.

   Given a set of types Args..., if std::declval<Args>()... meet the requirements for
   arguments to ranges::iter_move above, __iter_move_fn models
   std::invocable<__iter_move_fn, Args...>, std::invocable<const __iter_move_fn,
   Args...>, std::invocable<__iter_move_fn&, Args...>, and std::invocable<const
   __iter_move_fn&, Args...>. Otherwise, no function call operator of __iter_move_fn
   participates in overload resolution.

.SH See also

   iter_move casts the result of dereferencing the adjusted underlying iterator to its
   (C++20)   associated rvalue reference type
             \fI(function)\fP
   iter_move casts the result of dereferencing the underlying iterator to its
   (C++20)   associated rvalue reference type
             \fI(function)\fP
