.TH std::forward_list::insert_after 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::forward_list::insert_after \- std::forward_list::insert_after

.SH Synopsis
   iterator insert_after( const_iterator pos, const T& value );       \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iterator insert_after( const_iterator pos, T&& value );            \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iterator insert_after( const_iterator pos, size_type count, const  \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   T& value );
   template< class InputIt >
   iterator insert_after( const_iterator pos, InputIt first, InputIt  \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   last );
   iterator insert_after( const_iterator pos,                         \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::initializer_list<T> ilist );

   Inserts elements after the specified position in the container.

   1,2) Inserts value after the element pointed to by pos.
   3) Inserts count copies of the value after the element pointed to by pos.
   4) Inserts elements from range [first, last) after the element pointed to by pos.
   The behavior is undefined if first and last are iterators into *this.
   5) Inserts elements from initializer list ilist.

   No iterators or references are invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   pos         - iterator after which the content will be inserted
   value       - element value to insert
   count       - number of copies to insert
   first, last - the range of elements to insert
   ilist       - initializer list to insert the values from
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of LegacyInputIterator.

.SH Return value

   1,2) Iterator to the inserted element.
   3) Iterator to the last element inserted, or pos if count == 0.
   4) Iterator to the last element inserted, or pos if first == last.
   5) Iterator to the last element inserted, or pos if ilist is empty.

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown for any reason, these functions have no effect (strong
   exception safety guarantee).

.SH Complexity

   1,2) Constant.
   3) Linear in count.
   4) Linear in std::distance(first, last).
   5) Linear in ilist.size().

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <forward_list>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <vector>

 void print(const std::forward_list<int>& list)
 {
     std::cout << "list: {";
     for (char comma[3] = {'\\0', ' ', '\\0'}; int i : list)
     {
         std::cout << comma << i;
         comma[0] = ',';
     }
     std::cout << "}\\n";
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::forward_list<int> ints{1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
     print(ints);

     // insert_after (2)
     auto beginIt = ints.begin();
     ints.insert_after(beginIt, -6);
     print(ints);

     // insert_after (3)
     auto anotherIt = beginIt;
     ++anotherIt;
     anotherIt = ints.insert_after(anotherIt, 2, -7);
     print(ints);

     // insert_after (4)
     const std::vector<int> v = {-8, -9, -10};
     anotherIt = ints.insert_after(anotherIt, v.cbegin(), v.cend());
     print(ints);

     // insert_after (5)
     ints.insert_after(anotherIt, {-11, -12, -13, -14});
     print(ints);
 }

.SH Output:

 list: {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
 list: {1, -6, 2, 3, 4, 5}
 list: {1, -6, -7, -7, 2, 3, 4, 5}
 list: {1, -6, -7, -7, -8, -9, -10, 2, 3, 4, 5}
 list: {1, -6, -7, -7, -8, -9, -10, -11, -12, -13, -14, 2, 3, 4, 5}

.SH See also

   emplace_after constructs elements in-place after an element
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   push_front    inserts an element to the beginning
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
