.TH std::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource \- std::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <memory_resource>
   class synchronized_pool_resource : public std::pmr::memory_resource;  \fI(since C++17)\fP

   The class std::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource is a general-purpose memory resource
   class with the following properties:

     * It owns the allocated memory and frees it on destruction, even if deallocate has
       not been called for some of the allocated blocks.
     * It consists of a collection of pools that serves request for different block
       sizes. Each pool manages a collection of chunks that are then divided into
       blocks of uniform size.
     * Calls to do_allocate are dispatched to the pool serving the smallest blocks
       accommodating the requested size.
     * Exhausting memory in the pool causes the next allocation request for that pool
       to allocate an additional chunk of memory from the upstream allocator to
       replenish the pool. The chunk size obtained increases geometrically.
     * Allocations requests that exceed the largest block size are served from the
       upstream allocator directly.
     * The largest block size and maximum chunk size may be tuned by passing a
       std::pmr::pool_options struct to its constructor.

   synchronized_pool_resource may be accessed from multiple threads without external
   synchronization, and may have thread-specific pools to reduce synchronization costs.
   If the memory resource is only accessed from one thread,
   unsynchronized_pool_resource is more efficient.

.SH Member functions

   constructor       Constructs a synchronized_pool_resource
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   destructor        Destroys a synchronized_pool_resource, releasing all allocated
   \fB[virtual]\fP         memory
                     \fI(virtual public member function)\fP
   operator=         Copy assignment operator is deleted. synchronized_pool_resource is
   [deleted]         not copy assignable
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Public member functions
   release           Release all allocated memory
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   upstream_resource Returns a pointer to the upstream memory resource
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
                     Returns the options that control the pooling behavior of this
   options           resource
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Protected member functions
   do_allocate       Allocate memory
   \fB[virtual]\fP         \fI(virtual protected member function)\fP
   do_deallocate     Return memory to the pool
   \fB[virtual]\fP         \fI(virtual protected member function)\fP
   do_is_equal       Compare for equality with another memory_resource
   \fB[virtual]\fP         \fI(virtual protected member function)\fP
