.TH std::tuple::operator= 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::tuple::operator= \- std::tuple::operator=

.SH Synopsis
                                        (since
   tuple& operator=( const              C++11)
   tuple& other );                      (until
                                        C++20)
   constexpr tuple& operator=(          (since
   const tuple& other );                C++20)
   constexpr const tuple&               (since
   operator=( const tuple&          \fB(2)\fP C++23)
   other ) const;
   tuple& operator=( tuple&&                    (since
   other ) noexcept(/* see                      C++11)
   below */);                                   (until
                                                C++20)
   constexpr tuple& operator=(                  (since
   tuple&& other ) noexcept(/*                  C++20)
   see below */);
   constexpr const tuple&                       (since
   operator=( tuple&& other )           \fB(4)\fP     C++23)
   const;
   template< class... UTypes >                          (since
   tuple& operator=( const                              C++11)
   tuple<UTypes...>& other );                           (until
                                                        C++20)
   template< class... UTypes >
   constexpr tuple& operator=(                          (since
   const tuple<UTypes...>&                              C++20)
   other );
   template< class... UTypes >
   constexpr const tuple&                               (since
   operator=( const                             \fB(6)\fP     C++23)
   tuple<UTypes...>& other )
   const;
   template< class... UTypes >                                  (since
   tuple& operator=(                                            C++11)
   tuple<UTypes...>&& other );                                  (until
                                \fB(1)\fP                             C++20)
   template< class... UTypes >                                  (since
   constexpr tuple& operator=(                                  C++20)
   tuple<UTypes...>&& other );
   template< class... UTypes >      \fB(3)\fP
   constexpr const tuple&                               \fB(8)\fP     (since
   operator=( const                                             C++23)
   <UTypes...>&& other ) const;
   template< class U1, class U2                                         (since
   >                                    \fB(5)\fP                             C++11)
   tuple& operator=( const                                              (until
   std::pair<U1, U2>& p );                                              C++20)
   template< class U1, class U2
   >                                                                    (since
   constexpr tuple& operator=(                                          C++20)
   const std::pair<U1, U2>& p
   );                                           \fB(7)\fP
   template< class U1, class U2
   >
   constexpr const tuple&                                       \fB(10)\fP    (since
   operator=( const                                                     C++23)
   std::pair<U1, U2>& p )                               \fB(9)\fP
   const;
   template< class U1, class U2                                                 (since
   >                                                                            C++11)
   tuple& operator=(                                                            (until
   std::pair<U1, U2>&& p );                                                     C++20)
   template< class U1, class U2
   >                                                                            (since
   constexpr tuple& operator=(                                  \fB(11)\fP            C++20)
   std::pair<U1, U2>&& p );
   template< class U1, class U2
   >                                                                            (since
   constexpr const tuple&                                               \fB(12)\fP    C++23)
   operator=( std::pair<U1,
   U2>&& p ) const;

   Replaces the contents of the tuple with the contents of another tuple or a pair.

   1) Copy assignment operator. Assigns each element of other to the corresponding
   element of *this.

     * This overload is defined as deleted unless std::is_copy_assignable<T_i>::value
       is true for all T_i in Types.

   2) Copy assignment operator for const-qualified operand. Assigns each element of
   other to the corresponding element of *this.

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if
       std::is_copy_assignable_v<const T_i> is true for all T_i in Types.

   3) Move assignment operator. For all i, assigns std::forward<Ti>(std::get<i>(other))
   to std::get<i>(*this).

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if
       std::is_move_assignable<T_i>::value is true for all T_i in Types.

   4) Move assignment operator const-qualified operand. For all i, assigns
   std::forward<Ti>(std::get<i>(other)) to std::get<i>(*this).

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if
       std::is_assignable_v<const T_i&, T_i> is true for all T_i in Types.

   5) For all i, assigns std::get<i>(other) to std::get<i>(*this).

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if sizeof...(UTypes) ==
       sizeof...(Types) and std::is_assignable<T_i&, const U_i&>::value is true for all
       corresponding pairs of types T_i in Types and U_i in UTypes.

   6) For all i, assigns std::get<i>(other) to std::get<i>(*this).

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if sizeof...(UTypes) ==
       sizeof...(Types) and std::is_assignable_v<const T_i&, const U_i&> is true for
       all corresponding pairs of types T_i in Types and U_i in UTypes.

   7) For all i, assigns std::forward<Ui>(std::get<i>(other)) to std::get<i>(*this).

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if sizeof...(UTypes) ==
       sizeof...(Types) and std::is_assignable<T_i&, U_i>::value is true for all
       corresponding pairs of types T_i in Types and U_i in UTypes.

   8) For all i, assigns std::forward<Ui>(std::get<i>(other)) to std::get<i>(*this).

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if sizeof...(UTypes) ==
       sizeof...(Types) and std::is_assignable_v<const T_i&, U_i> is true for all
       corresponding pairs of types T_i in Types and U_i in UTypes.

   9) Assigns p.first to the first element of *this and p.second to the second element
   of *this.

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if sizeof...(Types) == 2,
       std::is_assignable<T_0&, const U1&>::value and std::is_assignable<T_1&, const
       U2&>::value are both true, where T_0 and T_1 are the two types constituting
.SH Types.

   10) Assigns p.first to the first element of *this and p.second to the second element
   of *this.

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if sizeof...(Types) == 2,
       std::is_assignable_v<const T_0&, const U1&> and std::is_assignable_v<const T_1&,
       const U2&> are both true, where T_0 and T_1 are the two types constituting
.SH Types.

   11) Assigns std::forward<U1>(p.first) to the first element of *this and
   std::forward<U2>(p.second) to the second element of *this.

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if
       std::is_assignable<T_0&, U1>::value and std::is_assignable<T_1&, U2>::value are
       both true, where T_0 and T_1 are the two types constituting Types.

   12) Assigns std::forward<U1>(p.first) to the first element of *this and
   std::forward<U2>(p.second) to the second element of *this.

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if
       std::is_assignable<const T_0&, U1> and std::is_assignable_v<const T_1&, U2> are
       both true, where T_0 and T_1 are the two types constituting Types.

.SH Parameters

   other - tuple to replace the contents of this tuple
   p     - pair to replace the contents of this 2-tuple

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Exceptions

   1,2) May throw implementation-defined exceptions.
   3)
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(

   std::is_nothrow_move_assignable<T0>::value &&
   std::is_nothrow_move_assignable<T1>::value &&
   std::is_nothrow_move_assignable<T2>::value &&
   ...

   )
   4-12) May throw implementation-defined exceptions.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <tuple>
 #include <utility>
 #include <vector>

 // helper function to print std::vector
 template<class Os, class T> Os& operator<< (Os& os, std::vector<T> const& v) {
     os << "{";
     for (std::size_t t = 0; t != v.size(); ++t)
         os << v[t] << (t+1 < v.size() ? ",":"");
     return os << "}";
 }

 // helpers to print a tuple of any size
 template<class Os, class Tuple, std::size_t N>
 struct TuplePrinter {
     static void print(Os& os, const Tuple& t) {
         TuplePrinter<Os, Tuple, N-1>::print(os, t);
         os << ", " << std::get<N-1>(t);
     }
 };

 template<class Os, class Tuple>
 struct TuplePrinter<Os, Tuple, 1>{
     static void print(Os& os, const Tuple& t) {
         os << std::get<0>(t);
     }
 };

 template<class Os, class... Args>
 Os& operator<< (Os& os, const std::tuple<Args...>& t) {
     os << "{ ";
     TuplePrinter<Os, decltype(t), sizeof...(Args)>::print(os, t);
     return os << " }";
 }

 struct line{ int len{60}; };
 template<class Os> Os& operator<< (Os& os, line l) {
     while (l.len-- > 0) std::cout << "─";
     return os << '\\n';
 }

 int main() {
     std::tuple<int, std::string, std::vector<int>>
         t1{1, "alpha", {1, 2, 3} }, t2{2, "beta", {4, 5} };
     std::cout << "t1 = " << t1 << ", t2 = " << t2 << '\\n';
     t1 = t2; // (1) operator=( const tuple& other );
     std::cout << "t1 = t2;\\n" "t1 = " << t1 << ", t2 = " << t2 << '\\n' << line{};

     t1 = std::move(t2); // (3) operator=( tuple&& other );
     std::cout << "t1 = std::move(t2);\\n" "t1 = " << t1 << ", t2 = " << t2 << '\\n' << line{};

     std::tuple<short, const char*, std::vector<int>> t3{3, "gamma", {6,7,8} };
     t1 = t3; // (5) operator=( const tuple<UTypes...>& other );
     std::cout << "t1 = t3; \\n" "t1 = " << t1 << ", t3 = " << t3 << '\\n' << line{};

     t1 = std::move(t3); // (7) operator=( tuple<UTypes...>&& other );
     std::cout << "t1 = std::move(t3);\\n" "t1 = " << t1 << ", t3 = " << t3 << '\\n' << line{};

     std::tuple<std::string, std::vector<int>> t4{"delta", {10,11,12} };
     std::pair<const char*, std::vector<int>> p1{"epsilon", {14,15,16} };
     std::cout << "t4 = " << t4 << ", "
               << "p1 = { " << p1.first << ", " << p1.second << " };\\n";
     t4 = p1; // (9) operator=( const std::pair<U1,U2>& p );
     std::cout << "t4 = p1;\\n" "t4 = " << t4
               << ", p1 = { " << p1.first << ", " << p1.second << " };\\n" << line{};

     t4 = std::move(p1); // (11) operator=( std::pair<U1,U2>&& p );
     std::cout << "t4 = std::move(p1);\\n" "t4 = " << t4
               << ", p1 = { " << p1.first << ", " << p1.second << " };\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 t1 = { 1, alpha, {1,2,3} }, t2 = { 2, beta, {4,5} }
 t1 = t2;
 t1 = { 2, beta, {4,5} }, t2 = { 2, beta, {4,5} }
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 t1 = std::move(t2);
 t1 = { 2, beta, {4,5} }, t2 = { 2, , {} }
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 t1 = t3;
 t1 = { 3, gamma, {6,7,8} }, t3 = { 3, gamma, {6,7,8} }
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 t1 = std::move(t3);
 t1 = { 3, gamma, {6,7,8} }, t3 = { 3, gamma, {} }
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 t4 = { delta, {10,11,12} }, p1 = { epsilon, {14,15,16} };
 t4 = p1;
 t4 = { epsilon, {14,15,16} }, p1 = { epsilon, {14,15,16} };
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 t4 = std::move(p1);
 t4 = { epsilon, {14,15,16} }, p1 = { epsilon, {} };

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to            Behavior as published             Correct behavior
   LWG 2729 C++11      tuple::operator= was unconstrained and might constrained
                       result in unnecessary undefined behavior

.SH See also

   constructor   constructs a new tuple
   \fI(C++11)\fP       \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=     assigns the contents
                 \fI(public member function of std::pair<T1,T2>)\fP
