.TH std::valarray::operator[] 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::valarray::operator[] \- std::valarray::operator[]

.SH Synopsis
   const T&               operator[]( std::size_t pos ) const;                    \fB(1)\fP
   T&                     operator[]( std::size_t pos );                          \fB(2)\fP
   std::valarray<T>       operator[]( std::slice slicearr ) const;                \fB(3)\fP
   std::slice_array<T>    operator[]( std::slice slicearr );                      \fB(4)\fP
   std::valarray<T>       operator[]( const std::gslice& gslicearr ) const;       \fB(5)\fP
   std::gslice_array<T>   operator[]( const std::gslice& gslicearr );             \fB(6)\fP
   std::valarray<T>       operator[]( const std::valarray<bool>& boolarr ) const; \fB(7)\fP
   std::mask_array<T>     operator[]( const std::valarray<bool>& boolarr );       \fB(8)\fP
   std::valarray<T>       operator[]( const std::valarray<std::size_t>& indarr )  \fB(9)\fP
   const;
   std::indirect_array<T> operator[]( const std::valarray<std::size_t>& indarr ); \fB(10)\fP

   Retrieve single elements or portions of the array.

   The const overloads that return element sequences create a new std::valarray object.
   The non-const overloads return classes holding references to the array elements.

   The selected elements(s) must exist:

     * for overloads (1,2), if pos is not less than size(), the behavior is undefined;
       and
     * for overloads (3-10), if the argument does not specify a valid subset of *this,
       the behavior is undefined.

.SH Parameters

   pos       - position of the element to return
   slicearr  - slice of the elements to return
   gslicearr - gslice of the elements to return
   boolarr   - mask of the elements to return
   indarr    - indices of the elements to return

.SH Return value

   1,2) A reference to the corresponding element.
   3,5,7,9) A std::valarray object containing copies of the selected items.
   4,6,8,10) The corresponding data structure containing references to the selected
   items.

.SH Exceptions

   May throw implementation-defined exceptions.

.SH Notes

   For proper std::valarray values a, b and proper std::size_t values i, j, all of the
   following expressions always evaluate to true:

   1) (a[i] = q, a[i]) == q for non-const a
   2) &a[i + j] == &a[i] + j
     * This means that std::valarray elements are adjacent in memory.
   3) &a[i] != &b[j] for every objects a and b that are not aliases of one another
     * This means that there are no aliases in the elements and this property can be
       used to perform some kinds of optimization.

   References become invalid on resize() or when the array is destructed.

   For overloads (3,5,7,9), The function can be implemented with the return type
   different from std::valarray. In this case, the replacement type has the following
   properties:

     * All const member functions of std::valarray are provided.
     * std::valarray, std::slice_array, std::gslice_array, std::mask_array and
       std::indirect_array can be constructed from the replacement type.
     * For every function taking a const std::valarray<T>&
       except begin() and end()
       \fI(since C++11)\fP, identical functions taking the replacement types shall be added;
     * For every function taking two const std::valarray<T>& arguments, identical
       functions taking every combination of const std::valarray<T>& and replacement
       types shall be added.
     * The return type does not add more than two levels of template nesting over the
       most deeply-nested argument type.

   Slice/mask/indirect index accesses do not chain: v[v == n][std::slice(0, 5, 2)] = x;
   is an error because std::mask_array (the type of v[v == n]) does not have
   operator[].

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cstddef>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <valarray>

 int main()
 {
     std::valarray<int> data = {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9};

     std::cout << "Initial valarray:   ";
     for (int n : data)
         std::cout << std::setw(3) << n;
     std::cout << '\\n';

     data[data > 5] = -1; // valarray<bool> overload of operator[]
     // the type of data > 5 is std::valarray<bool>
     // the type of data[data > 5] is std::mask_array<int>

     std::cout << "After v[v > 5] = -1:";
     for (std::size_t n = 0; n < data.size(); ++n)
         std::cout << std::setw(3) << data[n]; // regular operator[]
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 Initial valarray:     0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9
 After v[v > 5] = -1:  0  1  2  3  4  5 -1 -1 -1 -1

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

     DR    Applied to          Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 389 C++98      the return type of overload \fB(1)\fP was T    corrected to const T&
   LWG 430 C++98      the behavior was unclear for overloads   the behavior is
                      (3-10) if an invalid subset is specified undefined in this case

.SH Hidden category:
     * Pages with unreviewed LWG DR marker
