.TH std::error_condition::operator==,!=,< 3 "Jun 28 2014" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <system_error>
   bool operator==( const error_condition& lhs, const                 \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   error_condition& rhs );
   bool operator==( const error_code& lhs, const error_condition& rhs \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   );
   bool operator==( const error_condition& lhs, const error_code& rhs \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   );
   bool operator!=( const error_condition& lhs, const                 \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   error_condition& rhs );
   bool operator!=( const error_code& lhs, const error_condition& rhs \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   );
   bool operator!=( const error_condition& lhs, const error_code& rhs \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   );
   bool operator<( const error_condition& lhs, const error_condition& \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   rhs );

   Compares two error conditions.

   1-2) Checks whether lhs and rhs are equal.
   3-4) Checks whether lhs and rhs are not equal.
   5) Checks whether lhs is less than rhs.

.SH Parameters

   lhs, rhs - error conditions to compare

.SH Return value

   1) true if the error category and error value compare equal.
   2) true if lhs.category().equivalent(rhs.value(), lhs) or
   rhs.category().equivalent(lhs.value(), rhs) is true.
   3) true if the error category or error value compare are not equal.
   4) true if lhs.category().equivalent(rhs.value(), lhs) and
   rhs.category().equivalent(lhs.value(), rhs) is false.
   5) true if lhs.category() < rhs.category(). Otherwise, true if lhs.category() ==
   rhs.category() && lhs.value() < rhs.value(). Otherwise, false.

.SH Exceptions

   noexcept specification:  
   noexcept
     
