.TH std::unordered_set::insert 3 "Nov 25 2015" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::unordered_set::insert \- std::unordered_set::insert

.SH Synopsis
   std::pair<iterator,bool> insert( const value_type& value );      \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::pair<iterator,bool> insert( value_type&& value );           \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iterator insert( const_iterator hint, const value_type& value ); \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iterator insert( const_iterator hint, value_type&& value );      \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   template< class InputIt >                                        \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   void insert( InputIt first, InputIt last );
   void insert( std::initializer_list<value_type> ilist );          \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Inserts element(s) into the container, if the container doesn't already contain an
   element with an equivalent key.

   1-2) Inserts value.
   3-4) Inserts value, using hint as a non-binding suggestion to where the search
   should start.
   5) Inserts elements from range [first, last).
   6) Inserts elements from initializer list ilist.

   If rehashing occurs due to the insertion, all iterators are invalidated. Otherwise
   iterators are not affected. References are not invalidated. Rehashing occurs only if
   the new number of elements is equal to or greater than
   max_load_factor()*bucket_count().

.SH Parameters

   hint        - iterator, used as a suggestion as to where to insert the content
   value       - element value to insert
   first, last - range of elements to insert
   ilist       - initializer list to insert the values from
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of InputIterator.

.SH Return value

   1-2) Returns a pair consisting of an iterator to the inserted element (or to the
   element that prevented the insertion) and a bool denoting whether the insertion took
   place.
   3-4) Returns an iterator to the inserted element, or to the element that prevented
   the insertion.
   5-6) \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   1-4) If an exception is thrown by any operation, the insertion has no effect.

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: cases 5-6

.SH Complexity

   1-4) Average case: O(1), worst case O(size())
   5-6) Average case: O(N), where N is the number of elements to insert. Worse case:
   O(N*size()+N)

.SH See also

   emplace      constructs element in-place
                \fI(public member function)\fP 
   emplace_hint constructs elements in-place using a hint
                \fI(public member function)\fP 

.SH Category:

     * Todo with reason
