.TH std::match_results::format 3 "Apr 19 2014" "1.0.0" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   template< class OutputIt >

   OutputIter format( OutputIt out,
   const char_type* fmt_first, const char_type* fmt_last, \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::regex_constants::match_flag_type flags =

   std::regex_constants::format_default ) const;
   template< class OutputIt, class ST, class SA >

   OutputIter format( OutputIt out,
   const basic_string<char_type,ST,SA>& fmt,              \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::regex_constants::match_flag_type flags =

   std::regex_constants::format_default ) const;
   template< class ST, class SA >

   std::basic_string<char_type,ST,SA>
   format( const std::basic_string<char_type,ST,SA>& fmt, \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::regex_constants::match_flag_type flags =

   std::regex_constants::format_default ) const;
   string_type format( const char_type* fmt_s,

   std::regex_constants::match_flag_type flags =          \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   std::regex_constants::format_default ) const;

   format outputs a format string, replacing any format specifiers or escape sequences
   in that string with match data from *this.

   1) The format character sequence is defined by the range [fmt_first, fmt_last). The
   resulting character sequence is copied to out.
   2) The format character sequence is defined by the characters in fmt. The resulting
   character sequence is copied to out.
   3-4) The format character sequence is defined by the characters in fmt and fmt_s
   respectively. The resulting character sequence is copied to a newly constructed
   std::basic_string, which is returned.

   The flags bitmask determines which format specifiers and escape sequences are
   recognized.

   The behavior of format is undefined if ready() != true.

.SH Contents

     • 1 Parameters
     • 2 Return value
     • 3 Exceptions
     • 4 Example
     • 5 See also

.SH Parameters

   fmt_begin, fmt_end - pointers to a range of characters defining the format character
                        sequence
   fmt                - std::basic_string defining the format character sequence
   fmt_s              - pointer to a null-terminated character string defining the
                        format character sequence
   out                - iterator that the resulting character sequence is copied to
   flags              - std::regex_constants::match_flag_type bitmask specifying which
                        format specifiers and escape sequences are recognized
.SH Type requirements
   -
   OutputIt must meet the requirements of OutputIterator.

.SH Return value

   1-2) out
   3-4) The newly constructed string containing resulting character sequence.

.SH Exceptions

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <regex>

 int main()
 {
     std::string s = "for a good time, call 867-5309";
     std::regex phone_regex("\\\\d{3}-\\\\d{4}");
     std::smatch phone_match;

     if (std::regex_search(s, phone_match, phone_regex)) {
         std::string fmt_s = phone_match.format(
             "$`"    // $` means characters before the match
             "[$&]"  // $& means the matched characters
             "$'");  // $' means characters following the match
         std::cout << fmt_s << '\\n';
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 for a good time, call [867-5309]

.SH See also

   regex_replace   replaces occurrences of a regular expression with formatted
   \fI(C++11)\fP         replacement text
                   \fI(function template)\fP
   match_flag_type options specific to matching
   \fI(C++11)\fP         \fI(typedef)\fP
