.TH std::jthread::request_stop 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::jthread::request_stop \- std::jthread::request_stop

.SH Synopsis
   bool request_stop() noexcept;  \fI(since C++20)\fP

   Issues a stop request to the internal stop-state, if it has not yet already had stop
   requested.

   The determination is made atomically, and if stop was requested, the stop-state is
   atomically updated to avoid race conditions, such that:

     * stop_requested() and stop_possible() can be concurrently invoked on other
       std::stop_tokens and std::stop_sources of the same shared stop-state
     * request_stop() can be concurrently invoked from multiple threads on the same
       jthread object or on other std::stop_source objects associated with the same
       stop-state, and only one will actually perform the stop request

   However, see the Notes section.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   true if this invocation made a stop request, otherwise false

.SH Postconditions

   For a std::stop_token retrieved by get_stop_token() or a std::stop_source retrieved
   by get_stop_source(), stop_requested() is true.

.SH Notes

   If the request_stop() does issue a stop request (i.e., returns true), then any
   std::stop_callbacks registered for the same associated stop-state will be invoked
   synchronously, on the same thread request_stop() is issued on. If an invocation of a
   callback exits via an exception, std::terminate is called.

   If a stop request has already been made, this function returns false. However there
   is no guarantee that another thread or std::stop_source object which has just
   (successfully) requested stop for the same stop-state is not still in the middle of
   invoking a std::stop_callback function.

   If the request_stop() does issue a stop request (i.e., returns true), then all
   condition variables of base type std::condition_variable_any registered with an
   interruptible wait for std::stop_tokens associated with the jthread's internal
   stop-state will be awoken.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <thread>
 #include <chrono>
 #include <mutex>
 #include <condition_variable>

 using namespace std::chrono_literals;

 int main()
 {
         // A sleepy worker thread
         std::jthread sleepy_worker([] (std::stop_token stoken) {
                 for(int i=0; i < 10; i++) {
                         std::this_thread::sleep_for(300ms);
                         if(stoken.stop_requested()) {
                                 std::cout << "Sleepy worker is requested to stop\\n";
                                 return;
                         }
                         std::cout << "Sleepy worker goes back to sleep\\n";
                 }
         });

         // A waiting worker thread
         // The condition variable will be awoken by the stop request.
         std::jthread waiting_worker([] (std::stop_token stoken) {
                 std::mutex mutex;
                 std::unique_lock lock(mutex);
                 std::condition_variable_any().wait(lock, stoken,
                         [&stoken] { return stoken.stop_requested(); });
                 if(stoken.stop_requested()) {
                         std::cout << "Waiting worker is requested to stop" << "\\n";
                         return;
                 }
         });

         // std::jthread::request_stop() can be called explicitly:
         std::cout << "Requesting stop of sleepy worker\\n";
         sleepy_worker.request_stop();
         sleepy_worker.join();
         std::cout << "Sleepy worker joined\\n";

         // Or automatically using RAII:
         // waiting_worker's destructor will call request_stop()
         // and join the thread automatically.
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Requesting stop of sleepy worker
 Sleepy worker is requested to stop
 Sleepy worker joined
 Waiting worker is requested to stop
