.TH std::unique_lock::try_lock_for 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::unique_lock::try_lock_for \- std::unique_lock::try_lock_for

.SH Synopsis
   template< class Rep, class Period >
   bool try_lock_for( const std::chrono::duration<Rep, Period>&           \fI(since C++11)\fP
   timeout_duration );

   Tries to lock (i.e., takes ownership of) the associated mutex. Blocks until
   specified timeout_duration has elapsed or the lock is acquired, whichever comes
   first. On successful lock acquisition returns true, otherwise returns false.
   Effectively calls mutex()->try_lock_for(timeout_duration).

   This function may block for longer than timeout_duration due to scheduling or
   resource contention delays.

   The standard recommends that a steady clock is used to measure the duration. If an
   implementation uses a system clock instead, the wait time may also be sensitive to
   clock adjustments.

   std::system_error is thrown if there is no associated mutex or if the mutex is
   already locked by this std::unique_lock.

.SH Parameters

   timeout_duration - maximum duration to block for

.SH Return value

   true if the ownership of the mutex has been acquired successfully, false otherwise.

.SH Exceptions

     * Any exceptions thrown by mutex()->try_lock_for(timeout_duration).
     * If there is no associated mutex, std::system_error with an error code of
       std::errc::operation_not_permitted.
     * If the mutex is already locked, std::system_error with an error code of
       std::errc::resource_deadlock_would_occur.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   lock           locks (i.e., takes ownership of) the associated mutex
                  \fI(public member function)\fP
                  tries to lock (i.e., takes ownership of) the associated mutex without
   try_lock       blocking
                  \fI(public member function)\fP
   try_lock_for   tries to lock the associated mutex, for the specified duration
                  \fI(public member function of std::shared_lock<Mutex>)\fP
                  tries to lock (i.e., takes ownership of) the associated TimedLockable
   try_lock_until mutex, returns if the mutex has been unavailable until specified time
                  point has been reached
                  \fI(public member function)\fP
   unlock         unlocks (i.e., releases ownership of) the associated mutex
                  \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
