.TH std::condition_variable_any 3 "Sep  4 2015" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <condition_variable>
   class condition_variable_any;           \fI(since C++11)\fP

   The condition_variable_any class is a generalization of std::condition_variable.
   Whereas std::condition_variable works only on std::unique_lock<std::mutex>,
   condition_variable_any can operate on any user-defined lock that meets the
   BasicLockable requirements.

   condition_variable_any provides similar functionality to std::condition_variable. It
   is a synchronization primitive that can be used to block some number of threads
   until:

     * a notification is received from another thread
     * a timeout expires, or
     * a spurious wakeup occurs

   Any thread that intends to wait on std::condition_variable_any has to acquire a lock
   first. The wait operations atomically release the lock and suspend the execution of
   the thread. When the condition variable is notified, the thread is awakened, and the
   lock is reacquired.

   The class std::condition_variable_any is a standard-layout class. It is not
   copy-constructible, move-constructible, copy-assignable, or move-assignable.

   If the lock is std::unique_lock, std::condition_variable may provide better
   performance.

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs the object
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   destructor    destructs the object
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=     not copy-assignable
   [deleted]     \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Notification
   notify_one    notifies one waiting thread
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   notify_all    notifies all waiting threads
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Waiting
   wait          blocks the current thread until the condition variable is woken up
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
                 blocks the current thread until the condition variable is woken up or
   wait_for      after the specified timeout duration
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
                 blocks the current thread until the condition variable is woken up or
   wait_until    until specified time point has been reached
                 \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Notes

   A possible use for std::condition_variable_any with custom Lockable types is to
   provide convenient interruptible waits: the custom lock operation would both lock
   the associated mutex as expected, and also perform the necessary setup to notify
   this condition variable when the interrupting signal is received.^[1]

.SH References

    1. ↑ A. Williams (2012), "C++ concurrency in action" 9.2.4 Interupting a wait on
       std::condition_variable_any
