.TH std::money_get::get,do_get 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::money_get::get,do_get \- std::money_get::get,do_get

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <locale>
   public:

   iter_type get(iter_type beg, iter_type end, bool intl, std::ios_base& str,      \fB(1)\fP

                 std::ios_base::iostate& err, long double& units) const;
   iter_type get(iter_type beg, iter_type end, bool intl, std::ios_base& str,      \fB(2)\fP
                 std::ios_base::iostate& err, string_type& digits) const;
   protected:

   virtual iter_type do_get(iter_type beg, iter_type end, bool intl,
   std::ios_base& str,                                                             \fB(3)\fP

                            std::ios_base::iostate& err, long double& units)
   const;
   virtual iter_type do_get(iter_type beg, iter_type end, bool intl,
   std::ios_base& str,                                                             \fB(4)\fP
                            std::ios_base::iostate& err, string_type& digits)
   const;

   Parses monetary value from an input iterator and writes the result to a long double
   or string.

   1-2) Public member functions, call the member function do_get of the most derived
   class.
   3-4) Reads characters from the input iterator beg, expecting to find a monetary
   value formatted according to the rules specified by the std::ctype facet imbued in
   str.getloc() (ct for the rest of this page), the std::moneypunct<CharT, intl> facet
   imbued in str.getloc() (mp for the rest of this page), and the stream formatting
   flags obtained from str.flags().

   If the input iterator beg becomes equal to end before the parsing was completed,
   sets both failbit and eofbit in err. If parsing fails for another reason, sets the
   failbit in err. Either way, does not modify the output parameter ((units or digits)
   on error.

   If the parsing succeeds, does not change err, and stores the result in units or
   digits.

   The formatting pattern used by this function is always mp.neg_format().

   If mp.grouping() does not permit thousands separators, the first separator
   encountered is treated as a parsing error, otherwise they are treated as optional.

   If money_base::space or money_base::none is the last element in the pattern, the
   parser does not attempt to consume any whitespace after the other components of the
   monetary value were parsed. Otherwise, one or more whitespace characters are
   consumed where money_base::space appears.

   If showbase flag is set in str.flags(), the currency symbol or currency string is
   required, if it is not set, the currency symbol is optional.

   If the first character of the string returned by mp.positive_sign() or
   mp.negative_sign() is found in the money_base::sign position of the formatting
   pattern, it is consumed, and the rest of the characters in that string are expected
   and consumed after all other components of the monetary value. If both
   mp.positive_sign() and mp.negative_sign() are non-empty, the sign is required and
   must match the first character of one of these strings. If one of theses strings is
   empty, the sign is optional (and if it is absent, the sign of the result corresponds
   to the string that was empty). If both strings are empty, or have the same first
   character, the result is given the positive sign. If the output parameter is a
   string (digits) and the result is negative, the value ct.widen('-') is stored as the
   first character of the result.

   Digits from the input are extracted in order in which they appear and are placed in
   digits (after widening by ct.widen() as necessary), or into a temporary buffer buf1,
   from which the value of units is constructed as if by

 static const char src[] = "0123456789-";
 CharT atoms[sizeof(src)];
 ct.widen(src, src + sizeof(src) - 1, atoms);
 for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i)
 buf2[i] = src[find(atoms, atoms+sizeof(src), buf1[i]) - atoms];
 buf2[n] = 0;
 sscanf(buf2, "%Lf", &units);

   (where n is the number of characters extracted from the input and stored in buf1 and
   buf2 is another sufficiently large character buffer)

.SH Return value

   An iterator pointing immediately after the last character recognized as a valid part
   of the monetary string input.

.SH Notes

   The currency units are assumed to be the smallest non-fractional units of the
   currency: cents in the U.S, yen in Japan. Thus, the input sequence "$1,056.23" in a
   U.S. locale produces the number 105623.0 in units or a string "105623" in digits

   Because currency symbol is optional if showbase is off but the entire multicharacter
   negative_sign() is required, given the formatting pattern {sign, value, space,
   symbol} with showbase off and negative_sign of "-", the string "-1.23 €" parses as
   -123 and leaves "€" unconsumed on the input stream, but if negative_sign is "()",
   the string "(1.23 €)" is consumed completely.

   The I/O manipulator std::get_money offers a simpler interface to this function.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <sstream>
 #include <locale>
  
 void demo_money_get(std::locale loc, const std::string& input)
 {
     std::istringstream str(input);
     str.imbue(loc);
     long double units;
 // note, the following can be written simple with std::get_money(units)
     std::ios_base::iostate err = std::ios_base::goodbit;
     std::istreambuf_iterator<char> ret =
         std::use_facet<std::money_get<char>>(loc).get(
                  std::istreambuf_iterator<char>(str),
                  std::istreambuf_iterator<char>(),
                  false, str, err, units);
     str.setstate(err);
     if(str) {
         std::cout << "Successfully parsed '" << str.str() << "' as "
                   << units/100 << " units\\n";
         if(ret != std::istreambuf_iterator<char>()) {
             std::cout << "Remaining content: '";
             std::copy(ret, std::istreambuf_iterator<char>(),
                            std::ostreambuf_iterator<char>(std::cout));
             std::cout << "'\\n";
         } else {
             std::cout << "The input was fully consumed\\n";
         }
     } else {
             std::cout << "Parse failed. Unparsed string: '";
             std::copy(ret, std::istreambuf_iterator<char>(),
                            std::ostreambuf_iterator<char>(std::cout));
             std::cout << "'\\n";
     }
 }
  
 int main()
 {
     demo_money_get(std::locale("en_US.utf8"), "-$5.12 abc");
     demo_money_get(std::locale("ms_MY.utf8"), "(RM5.12) def");
 }

.SH Output:

 Successfully parsed '-$5.12 abc' as -5.12 units
 Remaining content: ' abc'
 Successfully parsed '(RM5.12) def' as -5.12 units
 Remaining content: ' def'

.SH See also

              defines monetary formatting parameters used by std::money_get and
   moneypunct std::money_put
              \fI(class template)\fP 
   money_get  parses and constructs a monetary value from an input character sequence
              \fI(class template)\fP 
   get_money  parses a monetary value
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(function template)\fP 
