.TH std::experimental::ranges::OutputIterator 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::ranges::OutputIterator \- std::experimental::ranges::OutputIterator

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/ranges/iterator>
   template< class I, class T >

   concept bool OutputIterator =
       Iterator<I> && Writable<I, T> &&
       requires(I i, T&& t) {                                               (ranges TS)
           *i++ = std::forward<T>(t); // not required to be equality
   preserving

       };

   The OutputIterator concept is a refinement of Iterator, adding the requirement that
   it can be used to write values of values of type and value category encoded by T
   (via Writable). EqualityComparable is not required.

   Let E be an expression such that decltype((E)) is T, and i be a dereferenceable
   object of type I. OutputIterator<I, T> is satisfied only if *i++ = E; has effects
   equivalent to *i = E; ++i;.

   Equality preservation

   An expression is equality preserving if it results in equal outputs given equal
   inputs.

     * The inputs to an expression consist of its operands.
     * The outputs of an expression consist of its result and all operands modified by
       the expression (if any).

   Every expression required to be equality preserving is further required to be
   stable: two evaluations of such an expression with the same input objects must have
   equal outputs absent any explicit intervening modification of those input objects.

.SH Notes

   Unlike the output iterator requirements in the C++ standard, OutputIterator in the
   Ranges TS does not require that the iterator category tag be defined.

   Algorithms on output iterators should be single pass.
