.TH std::fma,std::fmaf,std::fmal 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::fma,std::fmaf,std::fmal \- std::fma,std::fmaf,std::fmal

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float       fma ( float x, float y, float z );

   double      fma ( double x, double y, double z );            \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                                (until C++23)
   long double fma ( long double x, long double y, long
   double z );
   constexpr /* floating-point-type */

               fma ( /* floating-point-type */ x,               (since C++23)
                     /* floating-point-type */ y,

                     /* floating-point-type */ z );
   float       fmaf( float x, float y, float z );           \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                        \fB(1)\fP     (constexpr since C++23)
   long double fmal( long double x, long double y, long     \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double z );                                                  (constexpr since C++23)
   #define FP_FAST_FMA  /* implementation-defined */        \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   #define FP_FAST_FMAF /* implementation-defined */        \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   #define FP_FAST_FMAL /* implementation-defined */        \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   Additional overloads
   Defined in header <cmath>
   template< class Arithmetic1, class Arithmetic2,
   class Arithmetic3 >
                                                                \fI(since C++11)\fP
   /* common-floating-point-type */                         (A) (constexpr since C++23)

       fma( Arithmetic1 x, Arithmetic2 y, Arithmetic3 z
   );

   1-3) Computes x * y + z as if to infinite precision and rounded only once to fit the
   result type.
   The library provides overloads of std::fma for all cv-unqualified floating-point
   types as the type of the parameters x, y and z.
   (since C++23)
   4-6) If the macro constants FP_FAST_FMA, FP_FAST_FMAF, or FP_FAST_FMAL are defined,
   the function std::fma evaluates faster (in addition to being more precise) than the
   expression x * y + z for double, float, and long double arguments, respectively. If
   defined, these macros evaluate to integer 1.
   A) Additional overloads are provided for all other combinations of arithmetic types.

.SH Parameters

   x, y, z - floating-point or integer values

.SH Return value

   If successful, returns the value of x * y + z as if calculated to infinite precision
   and rounded once to fit the result type (or, alternatively, calculated as a single
   ternary floating-point operation).

   If a range error due to overflow occurs, ±HUGE_VAL, ±HUGE_VALF, or ±HUGE_VALL is
   returned.

   If a range error due to underflow occurs, the correct value (after rounding) is
   returned.

.SH Error handling

   Errors are reported as specified in math_errhandling.

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * If x is zero and y is infinite or if x is infinite and y is zero, and
          * if z is not a NaN, then NaN is returned and FE_INVALID is raised,
          * if z is a NaN, then NaN is returned and FE_INVALID may be raised.
     * If x * y is an exact infinity and z is an infinity with the opposite sign, NaN
       is returned and FE_INVALID is raised.
     * If x or y are NaN, NaN is returned.
     * If z is NaN, and x * y is not 0 * Inf or Inf * 0, then NaN is returned (without
       FE_INVALID).

.SH Notes

   This operation is commonly implemented in hardware as fused multiply-add CPU
   instruction. If supported by hardware, the appropriate FP_FAST_FMA? macros are
   expected to be defined, but many implementations make use of the CPU instruction
   even when the macros are not defined.

   POSIX (fma, fmaf, fmal) additionally specifies that the situations specified to
   return FE_INVALID are domain errors.

   Due to its infinite intermediate precision, std::fma is a common building block of
   other correctly-rounded mathematical operations, such as std::sqrt or even the
   division (where not provided by the CPU, e.g. Itanium).

   As with all floating-point expressions, the expression x * y + z may be compiled as
   a fused multiply-add unless the #pragma STDC FP_CONTRACT is off.

   The additional overloads are not required to be provided exactly as (A). They only
   need to be sufficient to ensure that for their first argument num1, second argument
   num2 and third argument num3:

     * If num1, num2 or num3 has type long double, then std::fma(num1,
       num2, num3) has the same effect as std::fma(static_cast<long
       double>(num1),
                static_cast<long double>(num2),
                static_cast<long double>(num3)).
     * Otherwise, if num1, num2 and/or num3 has type double or an integer
       type, then std::fma(num1, num2, num3) has the same effect as
       std::fma(static_cast<double>(num1),                                (until C++23)
                static_cast<double>(num2),
                static_cast<double>(num3)).
     * Otherwise, if num1, num2 or num3 has type float, then
       std::fma(num1, num2, num3) has the same effect as
       std::fma(static_cast<float>(num1),
                static_cast<float>(num2),
                static_cast<float>(num3)).
   If num1, num2 and num3 have arithmetic types, then std::fma(num1,
   num2, num3) has the same effect as std::fma(static_cast</*
   common-floating-point-type */>(num1),
            static_cast</* common-floating-point-type */>(num2),
            static_cast</* common-floating-point-type */>(num3)), where
   /* common-floating-point-type */ is the floating-point type with the
   greatest floating-point conversion rank and greatest floating-point    (since C++23)
   conversion subrank among the types of num1, num2 and num3, arguments
   of integer type are considered to have the same floating-point
   conversion rank as double.

   If no such floating-point type with the greatest rank and subrank
   exists, then overload resolution does not result in a usable candidate
   from the overloads provided.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cfenv>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <iostream>

 #ifndef __GNUC__
 #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS ON
 #endif

 int main()
 {
     // demo the difference between fma and built-in operators
     const double in = 0.1;
     std::cout << "0.1 double is " << std::setprecision(23) << in
               << " (" << std::hexfloat << in << std::defaultfloat << ")\\n"
               << "0.1*10 is 1.0000000000000000555112 (0x8.0000000000002p-3), "
               << "or 1.0 if rounded to double\\n";

     const double expr_result = 0.1 * 10 - 1;
     const double fma_result = std::fma(0.1, 10, -1);
     std::cout << "0.1 * 10 - 1 = " << expr_result
               << " : 1 subtracted after intermediate rounding\\n"
               << "fma(0.1, 10, -1) = " << std::setprecision(6) << fma_result << " ("
               << std::hexfloat << fma_result << std::defaultfloat << ")\\n\\n";

     // fma is used in double-double arithmetic
     const double high = 0.1 * 10;
     const double low = std::fma(0.1, 10, -high);
     std::cout << "in double-double arithmetic, 0.1 * 10 is representable as "
               << high << " + " << low << "\\n\\n";

     // error handling
     std::feclearexcept(FE_ALL_EXCEPT);
     std::cout << "fma(+Inf, 10, -Inf) = " << std::fma(INFINITY, 10, -INFINITY) << '\\n';
     if (std::fetestexcept(FE_INVALID))
         std::cout << "    FE_INVALID raised\\n";
 }

.SH Possible output:

 0.1 double is 0.10000000000000000555112 (0x1.999999999999ap-4)
 0.1*10 is 1.0000000000000000555112 (0x8.0000000000002p-3), or 1.0 if rounded to double
 0.1 * 10 - 1 = 0 : 1 subtracted after intermediate rounding
 fma(0.1, 10, -1) = 5.55112e-17 (0x1p-54)

 in double-double arithmetic, 0.1 * 10 is representable as 1 + 5.55112e-17

 fma(+Inf, 10, -Inf) = -nan
     FE_INVALID raised

.SH See also

   remainder
   remainderf
   remainderl signed remainder of the division operation
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   remquo
   remquof
   remquol    signed remainder as well as the three last bits of the division operation
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   C documentation for
   fma
