.TH std::promise::set_value 3 "Nov 25 2015" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::promise::set_value \- std::promise::set_value

.SH Synopsis
   void set_value( const R& value ); \fB(1)\fP (member only of generic promise template)
                                         \fI(since C++11)\fP
   void set_value( R&& value );      \fB(2)\fP (member only of generic promise template)
                                         \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                         (member only of promise<R&> template
   void set_value( R& value );       \fB(3)\fP specialization)
                                         \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                         (member only of promise<void> template
   void set_value();                 \fB(4)\fP specialization)
                                         \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Stores the value into the shared state and makes the state ready.

   The operation is atomic, i.e. it behaves as though they acquire a single mutex
   associated with the promise object while updating the promise object.

   An exception is thrown if there is no shared state or the shared state already
   stores a value or exception.

.SH Parameters

   value - value to store in the shared state

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   std::future_error on the following conditions:

     * *this has no shared state. The error category is set to no_state.

     * The shared state already stores a value or exception. The error category is set
       to promise_already_satisfied.

   Additionally:

   1-2) Any exception thrown by the copy constructor of value
   3) Any exception thrown by the move constructor of value

.SH Example

   This example shows how promise<void> can be used as signals between threads.

   
// Run this code

 #include <thread>
 #include <future>
 #include <cctype>
 #include <vector>
 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iterator>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <sstream>
  
 int main()
 {
     std::istringstream iss_numbers{"3 4 1 42 23 -23 93 2 -289 93"};
     std::istringstream iss_letters{" a 23 b,e a2 k k?a;si,ksa c"};
  
     std::vector<int> numbers;
     std::vector<char> letters;
     std::promise<void> numbers_promise, letters_promise;
  
     auto numbers_ready = numbers_promise.get_future();
     auto letter_ready = letters_promise.get_future();
  
     std::thread value_reader([&]
     {
         // I/O operations.
         std::copy(std::istream_iterator<int>{iss_numbers},
                   std::istream_iterator<int>{},
                   std::back_inserter(numbers));
  
         //Notify for numbers.
         numbers_promise.set_value();
  
         std::copy_if(std::istreambuf_iterator<char>{iss_letters},
                      std::istreambuf_iterator<char>{},
                      std::back_inserter(letters),
                      ::isalpha);
  
         //Notify for letters.
         letters_promise.set_value();
     });
  
  
     numbers_ready.wait();
  
     std::sort(numbers.begin(), numbers.end());
  
     if (letter_ready.wait_for(std::chrono::seconds(1)) ==
             std::future_status::timeout)
     {
         //output the numbers while letters are being obtained.
         for (int num : numbers) std::cout << num << ' ';
         numbers.clear(); //Numbers were already printed.
     }
  
     letter_ready.wait();
     std::sort(letters.begin(), letters.end());
  
     //If numbers were already printed, it does nothing.
     for (int num : numbers) std::cout << num << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
  
     for (char let : letters) std::cout << let << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
  
     value_reader.join();
 }

.SH Output:

 -289 -23 1 2 3 4 23 42 93 93
 a a a a b c e i k k k s s

.SH See also

   set_exception sets the result to indicate an exception
                 \fI(public member function)\fP 
