.TH std::setbuf 3 "Nov 25 2015" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::setbuf \- std::setbuf

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdio>
   void setbuf( std::FILE* stream, char* buffer );

   Sets the internal buffer to use for I/O operations performed on the C stream stream.

   If buffer is not null, equivalent to std::setvbuf(stream, buffer, _IOFBF, BUFSIZ)

   If buffer is null, equivalent to std::setvbuf(stream, NULL, _IONBF, 0), which turns
   off buffering.

.SH Parameters

   stream - the file stream to set the buffer to.
            pointer to a buffer for the stream to use. If NULL is supplied, the
   buffer - buffering is turned off. If not null, must be able to hold at least BUFSIZ
            characters

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Notes

   If BUFSIZ is not the appropriate buffer size, std::setvbuf can be used to change it.

   std::setvbuf should also be used to detect errors, since std::setbuf does not
   indicate success or failure.

   This function may only be used after stream has been associated with an open file,
   but before any other operation (other than a failed call to
   std::setbuf/std::setvbuf).

   A common error is setting the buffer of stdin or stdout to an array whose lifetime
   ends before the program terminates:

 int main() {
     char buf[BUFSIZ];
     std::setbuf(stdin, buf);
 } // lifetime of buf ends, undefined behavior

.SH Example

   setbuf may be used to disable buffering on streams that require immediate output

   
// Run this code

 #include <cstdio>
 #include <thread>
 #include <chrono>
  
 int main()
 {
     using namespace std::literals;
  
     std::setbuf(stdout, NULL); // unbuffered stdout
     std::putchar('a'); // appears immediately on unbuffered stream
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(1s);
     std::putchar('b');
 }

.SH Output:

 ab

.SH See also

   setvbuf sets the buffer and its size for a file stream
           \fI(function)\fP 
   C documentation for
   setbuf
