.TH std::experimental::scope_success 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::scope_success \- std::experimental::scope_success

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/scope>
   template<class EF>                      (library fundamentals TS v3)
   class scope_success;

   The class template scope_success is a general-purpose scope guard intended to call
   its exit function when a scope is normally exited.

   scope_success is not CopyConstructible, CopyAssignable or MoveAssignable, however,
   it may be MoveConstructible if EF meets some requirements, which permits wrapping a
   scope_success into another object.

   A scope_success may be either active, i.e. calls its exit function on destruction,
   or inactive, i.e. does nothing on destruction. A scope_success is active after
   constructed from an exit function.

   A scope_success can become inactive by calling release() on it either manually or
   automatically (by the move constructor). An inactive scope_success may also be
   obtained by initializing with another inactive scope_success. Once a scope_success
   is inactive, it cannot become active again.

   A scope_success effectively holds an EF and a bool flag indicating if it is active,
   alongwith a counter of uncaught exceptions used for detecting whether the destructor
   is called during stack unwinding.

.SH Template parameters

   EF                    -                   type of stored exit function
.SH Type requirements
   -
   EF shall be either:

     * a Destructible FunctionObject type
     * an lvalue reference to FunctionObject
     * an lvalue reference to function
   -
   Calling an lvalue of std::remove_reference_t<EF> with no argument shall be
   well-formed.

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs a new scope_success
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
                 calls the exit function when the scope is exited normally if the
   destructor    scope_success is active, then destroys the scope_success
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=     scope_success is not assignable
   [deleted]     \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Modifiers
   release       makes the scope_success inactive
                 \fI(public member function)\fP

  Deduction guides

.SH Notes

   Constructing a scope_success of dynamic storage duration might lead to unexpected
   behavior.

   Constructing a scope_success is constructed from another scope_success created in a
   different thread might also lead to unexpected behavior since the count of uncaught
   exceptions obtained in different threads may be compared during the destruction.

   If the EF stored in a scope_success object refers to a local variable of the
   function where it is defined, e.g., as a lambda capturing the variable by reference,
   and that variable is used as a return operand in that function, that variable might
   have already been returned when the scope_success's destructor executes, calling the
   exit function. This can lead to surprising behavior.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   scope_exit     wraps a function object and invokes it on exiting the scope
                  \fI(class template)\fP
                  wraps a function object and invokes it on exiting the scope through
   scope_fail     an exception
                  \fI(class template)\fP
   default_delete default deleter for unique_ptr
   \fI(C++11)\fP        \fI(class template)\fP
