.TH std::experimental::ranges::tagged::tagged 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::ranges::tagged::tagged \- std::experimental::ranges::tagged::tagged

.SH Synopsis
   using Base::Base;                                                               \fB(1)\fP
   tagged() = default;                                                             \fB(2)\fP
   tagged( tagged&& that ) = default;                                              \fB(3)\fP
   tagged( const tagged& that ) = default;                                         \fB(4)\fP
   tagged( Base&& that ) noexcept(std::is_nothrow_move_constructible<Base>::value) \fB(5)\fP
       requires MoveConstructible<Base>;
   tagged( const Base& that )
   noexcept(std::is_nothrow_copy_constructible<Base>::value)                       \fB(6)\fP
       requires CopyConstructible<Base>;
   template< class Other >

       requires Constructible<Base, Other>                                         \fB(7)\fP
   constexpr tagged( ranges::tagged<Other, Tags...> && that )

       noexcept(std::is_nothrow_constructible<Base, Other>::value);
   template< class Other >

       requires Constructible<Base, const Other&>                                  \fB(8)\fP

   constexpr tagged( const ranges::tagged<Other, Tags...> &that );

   Constructs a tagged object.

   1) tagged<Base, Tags...> inherits the constructors of Base.
   2-4) tagged has defaulted default, copy, and move constructors that invoke the
   corresponding constructor of Base.
   5) Converting move constructor from Base. Initializes the Base subobject with
   std::move(that).
   6) Converting copy constructor from Base. Initializes the Base subobject with that.
   7) Converting move constructor from a different tagged specialization with matching
   tags. Initializes the Base subobject with static_cast<Other&&>(that).
   8) Converting copy constructor from a different tagged specialization with matching
   tags. Initializes the Base subobject with static_cast<const Other&>(that).
