.TH std::chrono::operator<<(std::chrono::duration) 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::operator<<(std::chrono::duration) \- std::chrono::operator<<(std::chrono::duration)

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <chrono>
   template <class CharT, class Traits, class Rep, class Period>

   std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>&                             \fI(since C++20)\fP
       operator<<(std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>& os,

                  const std::chrono::duration<Rep, Period>& d);

   Inserts a textual representation of d into os. The behavior is undefined if CharT is
   neither char or wchar_t, or if Rep is neither a floating-point type nor a integral
   type with conversion rank equal to or greater than short.

   Behaves as if it forms a std::basic_string<CharT, Traits> str initially consisting
   of the characters in std::to_string(d.count()) (if CharT is char) or
   std::to_wstring(d.count()) (if CharT is wchar_t). Appends to str a suffix based on
   Period::type according to the following table, and inserts str into the stream with
   os << str;.

   Period::type                                  Suffix
   std::atto                                     as
   std::femto                                    fs
   std::pico                                     ps
   std::nano                                     ns
   std::micro                                    µs (U+00B5)
   std::milli                                    ms
   std::centi                                    cs
   std::deci                                     ds
   std::ratio<1>                                 s
   std::deca                                     das
   std::hecto                                    hs
   std::kilo                                     ks
   std::mega                                     Ms
   std::giga                                     Gs
   std::tera                                     Ts
   std::peta                                     Ps
   std::exa                                      Es
   std::ratio<60>                                min
   std::ratio<3600>                              h
   None of the above, and Period::type::den == 1 [num]s
   None of the above                             [num/den]s

   For std::micro, if the character µ (U+00B5) cannot be represented in the encoding
   used for CharT, the suffix "us" is used instead.

   For the last two rows of the table, num and den in the suffix are Period::type::num
   and Period::type::den formatted as a decimal number with no leading zeroes,
   respectively.

.SH Return value

   A reference to the stream, i.e., os.

.SH Notes

   d.count() is formatted using the rules of std::to_string/std::to_wstring. In
   particular, if Rep is a floating-point type, it is always formatted with 6 digits
   after the decimal point, and the number of significant digits in the resulting
   string may be zero if d.count() is small.

.SH See also

   to_stream  outputs a duration into a stream according to the provided format
   (C++20)    \fI(function template)\fP 
   operator<< performs stream input and output on strings
   operator>> \fI(function template)\fP 
   to_string  converts an integral or floating point value to string
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(function)\fP 
   to_wstring converts an integral or floating point value to wstring
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(function)\fP 
