.TH std::is_convertible 3 "Apr  2 2017" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::is_convertible \- std::is_convertible

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <type_traits>
   template< class From, class To >  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   struct is_convertible;

   If the imaginary function definition To test() { return std::declval<From>(); } is
   well-formed, (that is, either std::declval<From>() can be converted to To using
   implicit conversion, or both From and To are possibly cv-qualified void), provides
   the member constant value equal to true. Otherwise value is false. For the purposes
   of this check, the use of std::declval is in the return statement is not considered
   an odr-use.

   Access checks are performed as if from a context unrelated to either type. Only the
   validity of the immediate context of the expression in the return statement
   (including conversions to the return type) is considered.

   From and To shall each be a complete type, (possibly cv-qualified) void, or an array
   of unknown bound. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

  Helper variable template

   template< class From, class To >                                    \fI(since C++17)\fP
   constexpr bool is_convertible_v = is_convertible<From, To>::value;

Inherited from std::integral_constant

.SH Member constants

   value    true if From is convertible to To , false otherwise
   \fB[static]\fP \fI(public static member constant)\fP

.SH Member functions

   operator bool converts the object to bool, returns value
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator()    returns value
   \fI(C++14)\fP       \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Member types

   Type       Definition
   value_type bool
   type       std::integral_constant<bool, value>

.SH Notes

   Gives well-defined results for reference types, void types, array types, and
   function types.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <type_traits>

 int main()
 {
     class A {};
     class B : public A {};
     class C {};

     bool b2a = std::is_convertible<B*, A*>::value;
     bool a2b = std::is_convertible<A*, B*>::value;
     bool b2c = std::is_convertible<B*, C*>::value;

     std::cout << std::boolalpha;
     std::cout << b2a << '\\n';
     std::cout << a2b << '\\n';
     std::cout << b2c << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 true
 false
 false

.SH See also

   std::experimental::is_convertible_v variable template alias of
   (library fundamentals TS)           std::is_convertible::value
                                       (variable template)
