.TH std::log10,std::log10f,std::log10l 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::log10,std::log10f,std::log10l \- std::log10,std::log10f,std::log10l

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float       log10 ( float num );

   double      log10 ( double num );                            (until C++23)

   long double log10 ( long double num );
   /* floating-point-type */                                    (since C++23)
               log10 ( /* floating-point-type */ num );         (constexpr since C++26)
   float       log10f( float num );                     \fB(1)\fP \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                                (constexpr since C++26)
   long double log10l( long double num );                   \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                                (constexpr since C++26)
   Additional overloads \fI(since C++11)\fP
   Defined in header <cmath>
   template< class Integer >                                (A) (constexpr since C++26)
   double      log10 ( Integer num );

   1-3) Computes the common (base-10) logarithm of num.
   The library provides overloads of std::log10 for all cv-unqualified floating-point
   types as the type of the parameter.
   (since C++23)

   A) Additional overloads are provided for all integer types, which are  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   treated as double.

.SH Parameters

   num - floating-point or integer value

.SH Return value

   If no errors occur, the common (base-10) logarithm of num (log
   10(num) or lg(num)) is returned.

   If a domain error occurs, an implementation-defined value is returned (NaN where
   supported).

   If a pole error occurs, -HUGE_VAL, -HUGE_VALF, or -HUGE_VALL is returned.

.SH Error handling

   Errors are reported as specified in math_errhandling.

   Domain error occurs if num is less than zero.

   Pole error may occur if num is zero.

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * If the argument is ±0, -∞ is returned and FE_DIVBYZERO is raised.
     * If the argument is 1, +0 is returned.
     * If the argument is negative, NaN is returned and FE_INVALID is raised.
     * If the argument is +∞, +∞ is returned.
     * If the argument is NaN, NaN is returned.

.SH Notes

   The additional overloads are not required to be provided exactly as (A). They only
   need to be sufficient to ensure that for their argument num of integer type,
   std::log10(num) has the same effect as std::log10(static_cast<double>(num)).

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cerrno>
 #include <cfenv>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <cstring>
 #include <iostream>
 // #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS ON

 int main()
 {
     std::cout << "log10(1000) = " << std::log10(1000) << '\\n'
               << "log10(0.001) = " << std::log10(0.001) << '\\n'
               << "base-5 logarithm of 125 = "
               << std::log10(125) / std::log10(5) << '\\n';

     // special values
     std::cout << "log10(1) = " << std::log10(1) << '\\n'
               << "log10(+Inf) = " << std::log10(INFINITY) << '\\n';

     // error handling
     errno = 0;
     std::feclearexcept(FE_ALL_EXCEPT);

     std::cout << "log10(0) = " << std::log10(0) << '\\n';

     if (errno == ERANGE)
         std::cout << "    errno == ERANGE: " << std::strerror(errno) << '\\n';
     if (std::fetestexcept(FE_DIVBYZERO))
         std::cout << "    FE_DIVBYZERO raised\\n";
 }

.SH Possible output:

 log10(1000) = 3
 log10(0.001) = -3
 base-5 logarithm of 125 = 3
 log10\fB(1)\fP = 0
 log10(+Inf) = inf
 log10\fB(0)\fP = -inf
     errno == ERANGE: Numerical result out of range
     FE_DIVBYZERO raised

.SH See also

   log
   logf                 computes natural (base e) logarithm (\\({\\small\\ln{x}}\\)ln(x))
   logl                 \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   log2
   log2f                base 2 logarithm of the given number
   log2l                (\\({\\small\\log_{2}{x}}\\)log[2](x))
   \fI(C++11)\fP              \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   log1p
   log1pf               natural logarithm (to base e) of 1 plus the given number
   log1pl               (\\({\\small\\ln{(1+x)}}\\)ln(1+x))
   \fI(C++11)\fP              \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
                        complex common logarithm with the branch cuts along the
   log10(std::complex)  negative real axis
                        \fI(function template)\fP
   log10(std::valarray) applies the function std::log10 to each element of valarray
                        \fI(function template)\fP
   C documentation for
   log10
