.TH std::frexp,std::frexpf,std::frexpl 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::frexp,std::frexpf,std::frexpl \- std::frexp,std::frexpf,std::frexpl

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float       frexp ( float num, int* exp );

   double      frexp ( double num, int* exp );                  (until C++23)

   long double frexp ( long double num, int* exp );
   constexpr /* floating-point-type */
               frexp ( /* floating-point-type */ num,           (since C++23)
   int* exp );                                          \fB(1)\fP
   float       frexpf( float num, int* exp );               \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                                (constexpr since C++23)
   long double frexpl( long double num, int* exp );         \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                                (constexpr since C++23)
   Additional overloads \fI(since C++11)\fP
   Defined in header <cmath>
   template< class Integer >                                (A) (constexpr since C++23)
   double      frexp ( Integer num, int* exp );

   1-3) Decomposes given floating point value num into a normalized fraction and an
   integral exponent of two.
   The library provides overloads of std::frexp for all cv-unqualified floating-point
   types as the type of the parameter num.
   (since C++23)

   A) Additional overloads are provided for all integer types, which are  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   treated as double.

.SH Parameters

   num - floating-point or integer value
   exp - pointer to integer value to store the exponent to

.SH Return value

   If num is zero, returns zero and stores zero in *exp.

   Otherwise (if num is not zero), if no errors occur, returns the value x in the range
   (-1, -0.5], [0.5, 1) and stores an integer value in *exp such that x×2(*exp)
   == num.

   If the value to be stored in *exp is outside the range of int, the behavior is
   unspecified.

.SH Error handling

   This function is not subject to any errors specified in math_errhandling.

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * If num is ±0, it is returned, unmodified, and 0 is stored in *exp.
     * If num is ±∞, it is returned, and an unspecified value is stored in *exp.
     * If num is NaN, NaN is returned, and an unspecified value is stored in *exp.
     * No floating-point exceptions are raised.
     * If FLT_RADIX is 2 (or a power of 2), the returned value is exact, the current
       rounding mode is ignored.

.SH Notes

   On a binary system (where FLT_RADIX is 2), std::frexp may be implemented as

 {
     *exp = (value == 0) ? 0 : (int)(1 + std::logb(value));
     return std::scalbn(value, -(*exp));
 }

   The function std::frexp, together with its dual, std::ldexp, can be used to
   manipulate the representation of a floating-point number without direct bit
   manipulations.

   The additional overloads are not required to be provided exactly as (A). They only
   need to be sufficient to ensure that for their argument num of integer type,
   std::frexp(num, exp) has the same effect as std::frexp(static_cast<double>(num),
   exp).

.SH Example

   Compares different floating-point decomposition functions:


// Run this code

 #include <cmath>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <limits>

 int main()
 {
     double f = 123.45;
     std::cout << "Given the number " << f << " or " << std::hexfloat
               << f << std::defaultfloat << " in hex,\\n";

     double f3;
     double f2 = std::modf(f, &f3);
     std::cout << "modf() makes " << f3 << " + " << f2 << '\\n';

     int i;
     f2 = std::frexp(f, &i);
     std::cout << "frexp() makes " << f2 << " * 2^" << i << '\\n';

     i = std::ilogb(f);
     std::cout << "logb()/ilogb() make " << f / std::scalbn(1.0, i)
               << " * " << std::numeric_limits<double>::radix
               << "^" << std::ilogb(f) << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Given the number 123.45 or 0x1.edccccccccccdp+6 in hex,
 modf() makes 123 + 0.45
 frexp() makes 0.964453 * 2^7
 logb()/ilogb() make 1.92891 * 2^6

.SH See also

   ldexp
   ldexpf  multiplies a number by 2 raised to an integral power
   ldexpl  \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   logb
   logbf
   logbl   extracts exponent of the number
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   ilogb
   ilogbf
   ilogbl  extracts exponent of the number
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   modf
   modff   decomposes a number into integer and fractional parts
   modfl   \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   C documentation for
   frexp
