.TH std::format_error 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::format_error \- std::format_error

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <format>
   class format_error;         \fI(since C++20)\fP

   Defines the type of exception object thrown to report errors in the formatting
   library.

   std-format error-inheritance.svg

                                   Inheritance diagram

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs a new format_error object with the given message
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=     replaces the format_error object
                 \fI(public member function)\fP

std::format_error::format_error

   format_error( const std::string& what_arg );        \fB(1)\fP
   format_error( const char* what_arg );               \fB(2)\fP
   format_error( const format_error& other ) noexcept; \fB(3)\fP

   1) Constructs the exception object with what_arg as explanatory string. After
   construction, std::strcmp(what(), what_arg.c_str()) == 0.
   2) Constructs the exception object with what_arg as explanatory string. After
   construction, std::strcmp(what(), what_arg) == 0.
   3) Copy constructor. If *this and other both have dynamic type std::format_error
   then std::strcmp(what(), other.what()) == 0. No exception can be thrown from the
   copy constructor.

.SH Parameters

   what_arg - explanatory string
   other    - another exception object to copy

.SH Exceptions

   1,2) May throw std::bad_alloc.

.SH Notes

   Because copying std::format_error is not permitted to throw exceptions, this message
   is typically stored internally as a separately-allocated reference-counted string.
   This is also why there is no constructor taking std::string&&: it would have to copy
   the content anyway.

   A derived standard exception class must have a publicly accessible copy constructor.
   It can be implicitly defined as long as the explanatory strings obtained by what()
   are the same for the original object and the copied object.

std::format_error::operator=

   format_error& operator=( const format_error& other ) noexcept;

   Assigns the contents with those of other. If *this and other both have dynamic type
   std::format_error then std::strcmp(what(), other.what()) == 0 after assignment. No
   exception can be thrown from the copy assignment operator.

.SH Parameters

   other - another exception object to assign with

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Notes

   A derived standard exception class must have a publicly accessible copy assignment
   operator. It can be implicitly defined as long as the explanatory strings obtained
   by what() are the same for the original object and the copied object.

Inherited from std::runtime_error

Inherited from std::exception

.SH Member functions

   destructor   destroys the exception object
   \fB[virtual]\fP    \fI(virtual public member function of std::exception)\fP
   what         returns an explanatory string
   \fB[virtual]\fP    \fI(virtual public member function of std::exception)\fP

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
