.TH std::remove 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::remove \- std::remove

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdio>
   int remove( const char* pathname );

   Deletes the file identified by the character string pointed to by pathname.

   If the file is currently open by any process, the behavior of this function is
   implementation-defined. POSIX systems unlink the file name (directory entry), but
   the filesystem space used by the file is not reclaimed while it is open in any
   process and while other hard links to the file exist. Windows does not allow the
   file to be deleted in such cases.

.SH Parameters

   pathname - pointer to a null-terminated string containing the path identifying the
              file to delete

.SH Return value

   0 upon success or non-zero value on error.

.SH Notes

   POSIX specifies many additional details for the behavior of this function.

   The standard library also defines a function template std::remove taking a pair of
   iterators and a value, this overload is one of the standard algorithms.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cstdio>
 #include <cstdlib>
 #include <fstream>
 #include <iostream>

 int main()
 {
     // create a file, check success using operator! of temporary stream object
     if (!std::ofstream("file1.txt").put('a'))
     {
         std::perror("Error creating file1.txt");
         return EXIT_FAILURE;
     }
     std::cout << std::ifstream("file1.txt").rdbuf() << '\\n'; // print file

     std::remove("file1.txt"); // delete file

     if (!std::ifstream{"file1.txt"}) // uses operator! of temporary stream object
     {
         std::perror("Error opening deleted file");
         return EXIT_FAILURE;
     }
     return EXIT_SUCCESS;
 }

.SH Possible output:

 a
 Error opening deleted file: No such file or directory

.SH See also

   remove     removes a file or empty directory
   remove_all removes a file or directory and all its contents, recursively
   \fI(C++17)\fP    \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++17)\fP
   rename     renames a file
              \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   remove
