.TH std::experimental::ranges::iterator_category 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::ranges::iterator_category \- std::experimental::ranges::iterator_category

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/ranges/iterator>
   template< class I >                                           \fB(1)\fP
   struct iterator_category { };
   template< class T >                                           \fB(2)\fP
   struct iterator_category<T*>;
   template< class T >                                           \fB(3)\fP
   struct iterator_category<const T> : iterator_category<T> { };
   template <class T>

     requires requires { typename T::iterator_category; }        \fB(4)\fP

   struct iterator_category<T>;

   Computes the iterator category of the class I, if any. Users may specialize
   iterator_category for a program-defined type.

   1) Primary template is an empty struct.
   2) Specialization for pointers. If T is an object type, provides a member type type
   equal to ranges::random_access_iterator_tag. Otherwise, there is no member type.
   3) Specialization for const-qualified types.
   4) Specialization for types that define a public and accessible member type
   iterator_category. If T::iterator_category is the same as or derived from one of
   iterator category tags in namespace std, it is mapped to the corresponding tag in
   the namespace ranges as described below. Otherwise, provides a member type type
   equal to T::iterator_category.

     * If T::iterator_category is the same as or derives from
       std::random_access_iterator_tag, provides a member type type equal to
       ranges::random_access_iterator_tag.
     * Otherwise, if T::iterator_category is the same as or derives from
       std::bidirectional_iterator_tag, provides a member type type equal to
       ranges::bidirectional_iterator_tag.
     * Otherwise, if T::iterator_category is the same as or derives from
       std::forward_iterator_tag, provides a member type type equal to
       ranges::forward_iterator_tag.
     * Otherwise, if T::iterator_category is the same as or derives from
       std::input_iterator_tag, provides a member type type equal to
       ranges::input_iterator_tag.
     * Otherwise, if T::iterator_category is the same as or derives from
       std::output_iterator_tag, there is no member type.

   Helper alias template

   template< class T >
   using iterator_category_t = typename                                     (ranges TS)
   ranges::iterator_category<T>::type;

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   input_iterator_tag
   output_iterator_tag
   forward_iterator_tag       empty class types used to indicate iterator categories
   bidirectional_iterator_tag \fI(class)\fP 
   random_access_iterator_tag
   contiguous_iterator_tag
   (C++20)
   input_iterator_tag
   output_iterator_tag        empty class types used to indicate iterator categories
   forward_iterator_tag       \fI(class)\fP 
   bidirectional_iterator_tag
   random_access_iterator_tag
                              compatibility traits class that collects an iterator’s
   iterator_traits            associated types
                              (alias template) 

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
