.TH std::ranges::subrange 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::subrange \- std::ranges::subrange

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <ranges>
   template<

   std::input_or_output_iterator I,
   std::sentinel_for<I> S = I,
   ranges::subrange_kind K = std::sized_sentinel_for<S, I> ?
   ranges::subrange_kind::sized : ranges::subrange_kind::unsized          \fI(since C++20)\fP
   >
   requires (K == ranges::subrange_kind::sized ||
   !std::sized_sentinel_for<S, I>)

   class subrange : public ranges::view_interface<subrange<I, S, K>>

   The subrange class template combines together an iterator and a sentinel into a
   single view.

   Additionally, the subrange is a sized_range whenever the final template parameter is
   subrange_kind::sized (which happens when std::sized_sentinel_for<S, I> is
   satisfied or when size is passed explicitly as a constructor argument). The size
   record is needed to be stored if and only if std::sized_sentinel_for<S, I> is false
   and K is subrange_kind::sized.

.SH Member functions

   constructor       creates a new subrange
   (C++20)           \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator PairLike converts the subrange to a pair-like type
   (C++20)           \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Observers
   begin             obtains the iterator
   (C++20)           \fI(public member function)\fP
   end               obtains the sentinel
   (C++20)           \fI(public member function)\fP
   empty             checks whether the subrange is empty
   (C++20)           \fI(public member function)\fP
   size              obtains the size of the subrange
   (C++20)           \fI(public member function)\fP
.SH Iterator operations
   advance           advances the iterator by given distance
   (C++20)           \fI(public member function)\fP
   prev              obtains a copy of the subrange with its iterator decremented by a
   (C++20)           given distance
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
   next              obtains a copy of the subrange with its iterator advanced by a
   (C++20)           given distance
                     \fI(public member function)\fP
         Inherited from std::ranges::view_interface
   operator bool     Returns whether the derived view is not empty. Provided if
   (C++20)           ranges::empty is applicable to it.
                     \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   data              Gets the address of derived view's data. Provided if its iterator
   (C++20)           type satisfies contiguous_iterator.
                     \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   front             Returns the first element in the derived view. Provided if it
   (C++20)           satisfies forward_range.
                     \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   back              Returns the last element in the derived view. Provided if it
   (C++20)           satisfies bidirectional_range and common_range.
                     \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   operator[]        Returns the nth element in the derived view. Provided if it
   (C++20)           satisfies random_access_range.
                     \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP

  Deduction guides

.SH Non-member functions

   get(std::ranges::subrange) obtains iterator or sentinel from a std::ranges::subrange
   (C++20)                    \fI(function template)\fP

.SH Helper types

   ranges::subrange_kind                     specifies whether a std::ranges::subrange
   (C++20)                                   models std::ranges::sized_range
                                             \fI(enum)\fP
   std::tuple_size<std::ranges::subrange>    obtains the number of components of a
   (C++20)                                   std::ranges::subrange
                                             \fI(class template specialization)\fP
   std::tuple_element<std::ranges::subrange> obtains the type of the iterator or the
   (C++20)                                   sentinel of a std::ranges::subrange
                                             \fI(class template specialization)\fP

  Helper templates

   template<class I, class S, ranges::subrange_kind K>
   inline constexpr bool enable_borrowed_range<ranges::subrange<I, S, K>> = true;

   This specialization of std::ranges::enable_borrowed_range makes subrange satisfy
   borrowed_range.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <map>
 #include <ranges>
 #include <string_view>

 template <class V> void mutate(V& v) { v += 'A' - 'a'; }

 template <class K, class V>
 void mutate_map_values(std::multimap<K, V>& m, K k) {
     auto [first, last] = m.equal_range(k);
     for (auto& [_, v] : std::ranges::subrange(first, last)) {
         mutate(v);
     }
 }

 int main()
 {
     auto print = [](std::string_view rem, auto const& mm) {
         std::cout << rem << "{ ";
         for (const auto& [k, v] : mm) std::cout << "{" << k << ",'" << v << "'} ";
         std::cout << "}\\n";
     };

     std::multimap<int,char> mm{ {4,'a'}, {3,'-'}, {4,'b'}, {5,'-'}, {4,'c'} };
     print("Before: ", mm);
     mutate_map_values(mm, 4);
     print("After:  ", mm);
 }

.SH Output:

 Before: { {3,'-'} {4,'a'} {4,'b'} {4,'c'} {5,'-'} }
 After:  { {3,'-'} {4,'A'} {4,'B'} {4,'C'} {5,'-'} }

.SH See also

   ranges::view_interface helper class template for defining a view, using the
   (C++20)                curiously recurring template pattern
                          \fI(class template)\fP
