.TH std::chrono::time_zone::to_sys 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::time_zone::to_sys \- std::chrono::time_zone::to_sys

.SH Synopsis
   template< class Duration >

   auto to_sys( const std::chrono::local_time<Duration>& tp ) const         \fB(1)\fP (since
                                                                                C++20)
       -> std::chrono::sys_time<std::common_type_t<Duration,
   std::chrono::seconds>>;
   template< class Duration >

   auto to_sys( const std::chrono::local_time<Duration>& tp,                    (since
   std::chrono::choose z ) const                                            \fB(2)\fP C++20)

       -> std::chrono::sys_time<std::common_type_t<Duration,
   std::chrono::seconds>>;

   Converts the local_time tp in this time zone to the corresponding sys_time.

   1) Throws an exception if the conversion is ambiguous or if tp represents a
   nonexistent time.
   2) Resolves ambiguity according to the value of z:
     * If z == std::chrono::choose::earliest, returns the earlier sys_time.
     * If z == std::chrono::choose::latest, returns the later sys_time.
   If tp represents a nonexistent time between two UTC time_points, those two
   time_points will be the same, and that time_point will be returned.

.SH Return value

   The UTC equivalent of tp according to the rules of this time zone.

.SH Exceptions

   1) Throws:
     * std::chrono::ambiguous_local_time if the conversion is ambiguous,
     * std::chrono::nonexistent_local_time if tp represents a nonexistent time.

.SH Notes

   The precision of the result is at least std::chrono::seconds, and will be finer if
   the argument has finer precision.

   Ambiguous and nonexistent local times can occur as a result of time zone transitions
   (such as daylight saving time). For example, "2016-03-13 02:30:00" does not exist in
   the "America/New_York" time zone, while "2016-11-06 01:30:00" in that time zone can
   correspond to two UTC time points: 2016-11-06 05:30:00 UTC and 2016-11-06 06:30:00
   UTC.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
