.TH std::timed_mutex::try_lock 3 "Nov 16 2016" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::timed_mutex::try_lock \- std::timed_mutex::try_lock

.SH Synopsis
   bool try_lock();  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Tries to lock the mutex. Returns immediately. On successful lock acquisition returns
   true, otherwise returns false.

   This function is allowed to fail spuriously and return false even if the mutex is
   not currently locked by any other thread.

   If try_lock is called by a thread that already owns the mutex, the behavior is
   undefined.

   Prior unlock() operation on the same mutex synchronizes-with (as defined in
   std::memory_order) this operation if it returns true. Note that prior lock() does
   not synchronize with this operation if it returns false.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   true if the lock was acquired successfully, otherwise false.

.SH Exceptions

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   lock           locks the mutex, blocks if the mutex is not available
                  \fI(public member function)\fP
                  tries to lock the mutex, returns if the mutex has been
   try_lock_for   unavailable for the specified timeout duration
                  \fI(public member function)\fP
                  tries to lock the mutex, returns if the mutex has been
   try_lock_until unavailable until specified time point has been reached
                  \fI(public member function)\fP
   unlock         unlocks the mutex
                  \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
