.TH std::pmr::pool_options 3 "Nov 16 2016" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::pmr::pool_options \- std::pmr::pool_options

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <memory_resource>
   struct pool_options;                 \fI(since C++17)\fP

   std::pmr::pool_options is a set of constructor options for pool resources including
   std::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource and std::pmr::unsynchronized_pool_resource.

   Data members

   Member                                Meaning
                                         The maximum number of blocks that will be
                                         allocated at once from the upstream
                                         std::pmr::memory_resource to replenish the
                                         pool. If the value of max_blocks_per_chunk is
   std::size_t max_blocks_per_chunk;     zero or is greater than an
                                         implementation-defined limit, that limit is
                                         used instead. The implementation may choose to
                                         use a smaller value than is specified in this
                                         field and may use different values for
                                         different pools.
                                         The largest allocation size that is required
                                         to be fulfilled using the pooling mechanism.
                                         Attempts to allocate a single block larger
                                         than this threshold will be allocated directly
   std::size_t                           from the upstream std::pmr::memory_resource.
   largest_required_pool_block;          If largest_required_pool_block is zero or is
                                         greater than an implementation-defined limit,
                                         that limit is used instead. The implementation
                                         may choose a pass-through threshold larger
                                         than specified in this field.

.SH See also

   synchronized_pool_resource   a thread-safe std::pmr::memory_resource for managing
   \fI(C++17)\fP                      allocations in pools of different block sizes
                                \fI(class)\fP
   unsynchronized_pool_resource a thread-unsafe std::pmr::memory_resource for managing
   \fI(C++17)\fP                      allocations in pools of different block sizes
                                \fI(class)\fP
