.TH std::filesystem::exists 3 "Nov 16 2016" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::filesystem::exists \- std::filesystem::exists

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <filesystem>
   bool exists( std::filesystem::file_status s )                      \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   bool exists( const std::filesystem::path& p );                     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   bool exists( const std::filesystem::path& p, std::error_code& ec )

   Checks if the given file status or path corresponds to an existing file or
   directory.

   1) Equivalent to status_known(s) && s.type() != file_type::not_found.
   2) Equivalent to exists(status(p)) or exists(status(p, ec)) (symlinks are followed).
   The non-throwing overload returns false if an error occurs.

.SH Parameters

   s  - file status to check
   p  - path to examine
   ec - out-parameter for error reporting in the non-throwing overload

.SH Return value

   true if the given path or file status corresponds to an existing file or directory,
   false otherwise.

.SH Exceptions

   1)
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept
   2) The overload that does not take a std::error_code& parameter throws
   filesystem_error on underlying OS API errors, constructed with p as the first
   argument and the OS error code as the error code argument. std::bad_alloc may be
   thrown if memory allocation fails. The overload taking a std::error_code& parameter
   sets it to the OS API error code if an OS API call fails, and executes ec.clear() if
   no errors occur. This overload has
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept

.SH Notes

   The information provided by this function is usually also provided as a byproduct of
   directory iteration. During directory iteration, calling exists(*iterator) is less
   efficient than exists(iterator->status())

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <fstream>
 #include <cstdint>
 #include <filesystem>
 namespace fs = std::filesystem;

 void demo_exists(const fs::path& p, fs::file_status s = fs::file_status{})
 {
     std::cout << p;
     if(fs::status_known(s) ? fs::exists(s) : fs::exists(p))
         std::cout << " exists\\n";
     else
         std::cout << " does not exist\\n";
 }
 int main()
 {
     fs::create_directory("sandbox");
     std::ofstream("sandbox/file"); // create regular file
     fs::create_symlink("non-existing", "sandbox/symlink");

     demo_exists("sandbox");
     for(auto it = fs::directory_iterator("sandbox"); it != fs::directory_iterator(); ++it)
         demo_exists(*it, it->status()); // use cached status from directory entry
     fs::remove_all("sandbox");
 }

.SH Output:

 "sandbox" exists
 "sandbox/file" exists
 "sandbox/symlink" does not exist

.SH See also

   status         determines file attributes
   symlink_status determines file attributes, checking the symlink target
   \fI(C++17)\fP        \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++17)\fP
   file_status    represents file type and permissions
   \fI(C++17)\fP        \fI(class)\fP
   status         status of the file designated by this directory entry
   symlink_status symlink_status of the file designated by this directory entry
                  \fI(public member function of std::filesystem::directory_entry)\fP

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept
