.TH std::shared_ptr::shared_ptr 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::shared_ptr::shared_ptr \- std::shared_ptr::shared_ptr

.SH Synopsis
   constexpr shared_ptr();                                   \fB(1)\fP
   constexpr shared_ptr( std::nullptr_t );                   \fB(2)\fP
   template< class Y >                                       \fB(3)\fP
   explicit shared_ptr( Y* ptr );
   template< class Y, class Deleter >                        \fB(4)\fP
   shared_ptr( Y* ptr, Deleter d );
   template< class Deleter >                                 \fB(5)\fP
   shared_ptr( std::nullptr_t ptr, Deleter d );
   template< class Y, class Deleter, class Alloc >           \fB(6)\fP
   shared_ptr( Y* ptr, Deleter d, Alloc alloc );
   template< class Deleter, class Alloc >                    \fB(7)\fP
   shared_ptr( std::nullptr_t ptr, Deleter d, Alloc alloc );
   template< class Y >                                       \fB(8)\fP
   shared_ptr( const shared_ptr<Y>& r, element_type *ptr );
   shared_ptr( const shared_ptr& r );                        \fB(9)\fP
   template< class Y >                                       \fB(9)\fP
   shared_ptr( const shared_ptr<Y>& r );
   shared_ptr( shared_ptr&& r );                             \fB(10)\fP
   template< class Y >                                       \fB(10)\fP
   shared_ptr( shared_ptr<Y>&& r );
   template< class Y >                                       \fB(11)\fP
   explicit shared_ptr( const std::weak_ptr<Y>& r );
   template< class Y >                                       \fB(12)\fP \fI(until C++17)\fP
   shared_ptr( std::auto_ptr<Y>&& r );
   template< class Y, class Deleter >                        \fB(13)\fP
   shared_ptr( std::unique_ptr<Y,Deleter>&& r );

   Constructs new shared_ptr from a variety of pointer types that refer to an object to
   manage.

   For the purposes of the description below, a pointer type Y* is said
   to be compatible with a pointer type T* if either Y* is convertible to \fI(since C++17)\fP
   T* or Y is the array type U[N] and T is U cv [] (where cv is some set
   of cv-qualifiers).

   1-2) Constructs a shared_ptr with no managed object, i.e. empty shared_ptr
   3-7) Constructs a shared_ptr with ptr as the pointer to the managed object.
   If T is an array type U[N], Y(*)[N] must be convertible to T*. If T is an array type
   U[], Y(*)[] must be convertible to T*. Otherwise,
   \fI(since C++17)\fP Y* must be convertible to T*. Additionally:
   3) Uses the delete-expression delete ptr
   if T is not an array type; delete[] ptr if T is an array type
   \fI(since C++17)\fP as the deleter. Y must be a complete type. The delete expression must
   be well formed, have well-defined behavior and not throw any exceptions.
   4-5) Uses the specified deleter d as the deleter. The expression d(ptr) must be well
   formed, have well-defined behavior and not throw any exceptions. Deleter must be
   CopyConstructible, and its copy constructor and destructor must not throw
   exceptions.
   6-7) Same as (4-5), but additionally uses a copy of alloc for allocation of data for
   internal use. Alloc must be a Allocator, and its copy constructor and destructor
   must not throw exceptions.
   8) The aliasing constructor: constructs a shared_ptr which shares ownership
   information with r, but holds an unrelated and unmanaged pointer ptr. Even if this
   shared_ptr is the last of the group to go out of scope, it will call the destructor
   for the object originally managed by r. However, calling get() on this will always
   return a copy of ptr. It is the responsibility of the programmer to make sure that
   this ptr remains valid as long as this shared_ptr exists, such as in the typical use
   cases where ptr is a member of the object managed by r or is an alias (e.g.,
   downcast) of r.get()
   9) Constructs a shared_ptr which shares ownership of the object managed by r. If r
   manages no object, *this manages no object too. The template overload doesn't
   participate in overload resolution if Y* is not
   implicitly convertible to
   \fI(until C++17)\fP
   compatible with
   \fI(since C++17)\fP T*.
   10) Move-constructs a shared_ptr from r. After the construction, *this contains a
   copy of the previous state of r, r is empty and its stored pointer is null. The
   template overload doesn't participate in overload resolution if Y* is not
   implicitly convertible to
   \fI(until C++17)\fP
   compatible with
   \fI(since C++17)\fP T*.
   11) Constructs a shared_ptr which shares ownership of the object managed by r. Y*
   must be
   implicitly convertible to
   \fI(until C++17)\fP
   compatible with
   \fI(since C++17)\fP T*. Note that r.lock() may be used for the same purpose: the
   difference is that this constructor throws an exception if the argument is empty,
   while std::weak_ptr<T>::lock() constructs an empty std::shared_ptr in that case.
   12) Constructs a shared_ptr that stores and owns the object formerly owned by r. Y*
   must be convertible to T*. After construction, r is empty.
   13) Constructs a shared_ptr which manages the object currently managed by r. The
   deleter associated with r is stored for future deletion of the managed object. r
   manages no object after the call.

   This overload doesn't participate in overload resolution if
   std::unique_ptr<Y, Deleter>::pointer is not
   implicitly convertible to
   \fI(until C++17)\fP                                                          \fI(since C++17)\fP
   compatible with
   \fI(since C++17)\fP T*. If r.get() is a null pointer, this overload is
   equivalent to the default constructor \fB(1)\fP.

   If Deleter is a reference type, equivalent to shared_ptr(r.release(),
   std::ref(r.get_deleter()). Otherwise, equivalent to shared_ptr(r.release(),
   r.get_deleter())

.SH Notes

   The overloads \fB(3)\fP, \fB(4)\fP, and \fB(6)\fP enable shared_from_this with ptr, and the overload
   \fB(13)\fP enables shared_from_this with the pointer returned by r.release().

   A constructor enables shared_from_this with a pointer ptr of type U* means that it
   determines if U has an unambiguous and accessible base class that is a
   specialization of std::enable_shared_from_this, and if so, the constructor evaluates
   the statement:

 if (ptr != nullptr && ptr->weak_this.expired())
   ptr->weak_this = std::shared_ptr<std::remove_cv_t<U>>(*this,
                                   const_cast<std::remove_cv_t<U>*>(ptr));

   Where weak_this is the hidden mutable std::weak_ptr member of std::shared_from_this.
   The assignment to the weak_this member is not atomic and conflicts with any
   potentially concurrent access to the same object. This ensures that future calls to
   shared_from_this() would share ownership with the shared_ptr created by this raw
   pointer constructor.

   The test ptr->weak_this.expired() in the exposition code above makes sure that
   weak_this is not reassigned if it already indicates an owner. This test is required
   as of C++17.

   The raw pointer overloads assume ownership of the pointed-to object. Therefore,
   constructing a shared_ptr using the raw pointer overload for an object that is
   already managed by a shared_ptr, such as by shared_ptr(ptr.get()) is likely to lead
   to undefined behavior, even if the object is of a type derived from
   std::enable_shared_from_this.

   Because the default constructor is constexpr, static shared_ptrs are initialized as
   part of static non-local initialization, before any dynamic non-local initialization
   begins. This makes it safe to use a shared_ptr in a constructor of any static
   object.

.SH Parameters

   ptr   - a pointer to an object to manage
   d     - a deleter to use to destroy the object
   alloc - an allocator to use for allocations of data for internal use
   r     - another smart pointer to share the ownership to or acquire the ownership
           from

.SH Exceptions

   1-2)
   noexcept specification:  
   noexcept
     
   3) std::bad_alloc if required additional memory could not be obtained. May throw
   implementation-defined exception for other errors. delete ptr
   if T is not an array type, delete[] ptr otherwise)
   \fI(since C++17)\fP is called if an exception occurs.
   4-7) std::bad_alloc if required additional memory could not be obtained. May throw
   implementation-defined exception for other errors. d(ptr) is called if an exception
   occurs.
   8-10)
   noexcept specification:  
   noexcept
     
   11) std::bad_weak_ptr if r.expired() == true. The constructor has no effect in this
   case.
   12) std::bad_alloc if required additional memory could not be obtained. May throw
   implementation-defined exception for other errors. This constructor has no effect if
   an exception occurs.
   13) If an exception is thrown, the constructor has no effects.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <memory>
 #include <iostream>
  
 struct Foo {
     Foo() { std::cout << "Foo...\\n"; }
     ~Foo() { std::cout << "~Foo...\\n"; }
 };
  
 struct D {
     void operator()(Foo* p) const {
         std::cout << "Call delete from function object...\\n";
         delete p;
     }
 };
  
 int main()
 {
     {
         std::cout << "constructor with no managed object\\n";
         std::shared_ptr<Foo> sh1;
     }
  
     {
         std::cout << "constructor with object\\n";
         std::shared_ptr<Foo> sh2(new Foo);
         std::shared_ptr<Foo> sh3(sh2);
         std::cout << sh2.use_count() << '\\n';
         std::cout << sh3.use_count() << '\\n';
     }
  
     {
         std::cout << "constructor with object and deleter\\n";
         std::shared_ptr<Foo> sh4(new Foo, D());
         std::shared_ptr<Foo> sh5(new Foo, [](auto p) {
            std::cout << "Call delete from lambda...\\n";
            delete p;
         });
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 constructor with no managed object
 constructor with object
 Foo...
 2
 2
 ~Foo...
 constructor with object and deleter
 Foo...
 Foo...
 Call delete from lambda...
 ~Foo...
 Call delete from function object...
 ~Foo..

.SH See also

   make_shared     creates a shared pointer that manages a new object
                   \fI(function template)\fP 
                   creates a shared pointer that manages a new object allocated using
   allocate_shared an allocator
                   \fI(function template)\fP 

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept
