.TH std::clock 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::clock \- std::clock

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <ctime>
   std::clock_t clock();

   Returns the approximate processor time used by the process since the beginning of an
   implementation-defined era related to the program's execution. To convert result
   value to seconds divide it by CLOCKS_PER_SEC.

   Only the difference between two values returned by different calls to std::clock is
   meaningful, as the beginning of the std::clock era does not have to coincide with
   the start of the program. std::clock time may advance faster or slower than the wall
   clock, depending on the execution resources given to the program by the operating
   system. For example, if the CPU is shared by other processes, std::clock time may
   advance slower than wall clock. On the other hand, if the current process is
   multithreaded and more than one execution core is available, std::clock time may
   advance faster than wall clock.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   Processor time used by the program so far or std::clock_t(-1) if that information is
   unavailable or its value cannot be represented.

.SH Exceptions

   Throws nothing.

.SH Notes

   On POSIX-compatible systems, clock_gettime with clock id CLOCK_PROCESS_CPUTIME_ID
   offers better resolution.

   The value returned by clock() may wrap around on some non-conforming
   implementations. For example, on such an implementation, if std::clock_t is a signed
   32-bit integer and CLOCKS_PER_SEC is 1'000'000, it will wrap after about 2147
   seconds (about 36 minutes).

.SH Example

   This example demonstrates the difference between clock() time and real time.


// Run this code

 #include <chrono>
 #include <ctime>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <thread>

 // The function f() does some time-consuming work.
 void f()
 {
     volatile double d = 0;
     for (int n = 0; n < 10000; ++n)
         for (int m = 0; m < 10000; ++m)
         {
             double diff = d * n * m;
             d = diff + d;
         }
 }

 int main()
 {
     const std::clock_t c_start = std::clock();
     auto t_start = std::chrono::high_resolution_clock::now();
     std::thread t1(f);
     std::thread t2(f); // f() is called on two threads
     t1.join();
     t2.join();
     const std::clock_t c_end = std::clock();
     const auto t_end = std::chrono::high_resolution_clock::now();

     std::cout << std::fixed << std::setprecision(2) << "CPU time used: "
               << 1000.0 * (c_end - c_start) / CLOCKS_PER_SEC << "ms\\n"
               << "Wall clock time passed: "
               << std::chrono::duration<double, std::milli>(t_end - t_start) << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 CPU time used: 1590.00ms
 Wall clock time passed: 808.23ms

.SH See also

   ctime converts a std::time_t object to a textual representation
         \fI(function)\fP
   time  returns the current time of the system as time since epoch
         \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   clock
