.TH std::deque::emplace_back 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::deque::emplace_back \- std::deque::emplace_back

.SH Synopsis
   template< class... Args >                  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   void emplace_back( Args&&... args );       \fI(until C++17)\fP
   template< class... Args >                  \fI(since C++17)\fP
   reference emplace_back( Args&&... args );

   Appends a new element to the end of the container. The element is constructed
   through std::allocator_traits::construct, which typically uses placement-new to
   construct the element in-place at the location provided by the container. The
   arguments args... are forwarded to the constructor as std::forward<Args>(args)....

   All iterators, including the past-the-end iterator, are invalidated. No references
   are invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   args         -         arguments to forward to the constructor of the element
.SH Type requirements
   -
   T (the container's element type) must meet the requirements of EmplaceConstructible.

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP                               \fI(until C++17)\fP
   A reference to the inserted element. \fI(since C++17)\fP

.SH Complexity

   Constant.

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown, this function has no effect \fI(strong exception guarantee)\fP.

.SH Example

   The following code uses emplace_back to append an object of type President to a
   std::deque. It demonstrates how emplace_back forwards parameters to the President
   constructor and shows how using emplace_back avoids the extra copy or move operation
   required when using push_back.

   
// Run this code

 #include <deque>
 #include <string>
 #include <iostream>
  
 struct President
 {
     std::string name;
     std::string country;
     int year;
  
     President(std::string p_name, std::string p_country, int p_year)
         : name(std::move(p_name)), country(std::move(p_country)), year(p_year)
     {
         std::cout << "I am being constructed.\\n";
     }
     President(President&& other)
         : name(std::move(other.name)), country(std::move(other.country)), year(other.year)
     {
         std::cout << "I am being moved.\\n";
     }
     President& operator=(const President& other) = default;
 };
  
 int main()
 {
     std::deque<President> elections;
     std::cout << "emplace_back:\\n";
     elections.emplace_back("Nelson Mandela", "South Africa", 1994);
  
     std::deque<President> reElections;
     std::cout << "\\npush_back:\\n";
     reElections.push_back(President("Franklin Delano Roosevelt", "the USA", 1936));
  
     std::cout << "\\nContents:\\n";
     for (President const& president: elections) {
         std::cout << president.name << " was elected president of "
                   << president.country << " in " << president.year << ".\\n";
     }
     for (President const& president: reElections) {
         std::cout << president.name << " was re-elected president of "
                   << president.country << " in " << president.year << ".\\n";
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 emplace_back:
 I am being constructed.
  
 push_back:
 I am being constructed.
 I am being moved.
  
.SH Contents:
 Nelson Mandela was elected president of South Africa in 1994.
 Franklin Delano Roosevelt was re-elected president of the USA in 1936.

.SH See also

   push_back adds an element to the end
             \fI(public member function)\fP 
