.TH std::pmr::unsynchronized_pool_resource::unsynchronized_pool_resource 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::pmr::unsynchronized_pool_resource::unsynchronized_pool_resource \- std::pmr::unsynchronized_pool_resource::unsynchronized_pool_resource

.SH Synopsis
   unsynchronized_pool_resource();                                          \fB(1)\fP (since
                                                                                C++17)
   explicit unsynchronized_pool_resource(std::pmr::memory_resource*         \fB(2)\fP (since
   upstream);                                                                   C++17)
   explicit unsynchronized_pool_resource(const std::pmr::pool_options&      \fB(3)\fP (since
   opts);                                                                       C++17)
   unsynchronized_pool_resource(const std::pmr::pool_options& opts,         \fB(4)\fP (since
   std::pmr::memory_resource* upstream);                                        C++17)
   unsynchronized_pool_resource(const unsynchronized_pool_resource&) =      \fB(5)\fP (since
   delete;                                                                      C++17)

   Constructs a unsynchronized_pool_resource.

   1-4) Constructs an unsynchronized_pool_resource using the specified upstream memory
   resource and tuned according to the specified options. The resulting object holds a
   copy of upstream but does not own the resource to which upstream points.
   The overloads not taking opts as a parameter uses a default constructed instance of
   pool_options as the options. The overloads not taking upstream as a parameter use
   the return value of std::pmr::get_default_resource() as the upstream memory
   resource.
   5) Copy constructor is deleted.

.SH Parameters

   opts     - a std::pmr::pool_options struct containing the constructor options
   upstream - the upstream memory resource to use

.SH Exceptions

   1-4) Throws only if a call to the allocate() function of the upstream resource
   throws. It is unspecified if or under what conditions such a call takes place.
