.TH std::any::emplace 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::any::emplace \- std::any::emplace

.SH Synopsis
   template< class ValueType, class... Args >                         \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   std::decay_t<ValueType>& emplace( Args&&... args );
   template< class ValueType, class U, class... Args >
   std::decay_t<ValueType>& emplace( std::initializer_list<U> il,     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   Args&&... args );

   Changes the contained object to one of type std::decay_t<ValueType> constructed from
   the arguments.

   First destroys the current contained object (if any) by reset(), then:

   1) constructs an object of type std::decay_t<ValueType>, direct-non-list-initialized
   from std::forward<Args>(args)..., as the contained object.

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if
       std::is_constructible_v<std::decay_t<ValueType>, Args...> and
       std::is_copy_constructible_v<std::decay_t<ValueType>> are both true.

   2) constructs an object of type std::decay_t<ValueType>, direct-non-list-initialized
   from il, std::forward<Args>(args)..., as the contained object.

     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if
       std::is_constructible_v<std::decay_t<ValueType>, std::initializer_list<U>&,
       Args...> and std::is_copy_constructible_v<std::decay_t<ValueType>> are both
       true.

.SH Template parameters

   ValueType               -              contained value type
.SH Type requirements
   -
   std::decay_t<ValueType> must meet the requirements of CopyConstructible.

.SH Return value

   A reference to the new contained object.

.SH Exceptions

   Throws any exception thrown by T's constructor. If an exception is thrown, the
   previously contained object (if any) has been destroyed, and *this does not contain
   a value.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <any>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <vector>

 class Star
 {
     std::string name;
     int id;

 public:
     Star(std::string name, int id) : name { name }, id { id }
     {
         std::cout << "Star::Star(string, int)\\n";
     }

     void print() const
     {
         std::cout << "Star{ \\"" << name << "\\" : " << id << " };\\n";
     }
 };

 auto main() -> int
 {
     std::any celestial;
     // (1) emplace( Args&&... args );
     celestial.emplace<Star>("Procyon", 2943);
     const auto* star = std::any_cast<Star>(&celestial);
     star->print();

     std::any av;
     // (2) emplace( std::initializer_list<U> il, Args&&... args );
     av.emplace<std::vector<char>>({ 'C', '+', '+', '1', '7' } /* no args */ );
     std::cout << av.type().name() << '\\n';
     const auto* va = std::any_cast<std::vector<char>>(&av);
     std::for_each(va->cbegin(), va->cend(), [](char const& c) { std::cout << c; });
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Star::Star(string, int)
 Star{ "Procyon" : 2943 };
 St6vectorIcSaIcEE
 C++17

.SH See also

   constructor   constructs an any object
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   reset         destroys contained object
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
