.TH std::remquo 3 "2019.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::remquo \- std::remquo

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float       remquo( float x, float y, int* quo );             \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double      remquo( double x, double y, int* quo );           \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   long double remquo( long double x, long double y, int* quo ); \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   Promoted    remquo( Arithmetic1 x, Arithmetic2 y, int* quo ); \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   1-3) Computes the floating-point remainder of the division operation x/y as the
   std::remainder() function does. Additionally, the sign and at least the three of the
   last bits of x/y will be stored in quo, sufficient to determine the octant of the
   result within a period.
   4) A set of overloads or a function template for all combinations of arguments of
   arithmetic type not covered by 1-3. If any non-pointer argument has integral type,
   it is cast to double. If any other non-pointer argument is long double, then the
   return type is long double, otherwise it is double.

.SH Parameters

   x, y - floating point values
   quo  - pointer to an integer value to store the sign and some bits of x/y

.SH Return value

   If successful, returns the floating-point remainder of the division x/y as defined
   in std::remainder, and stores, in *quo, the sign and at least three of the least
   significant bits of x/y (formally, stores a value whose sign is the sign of x/y and
   whose magnitude is congruent modulo 2n
   to the magnitude of the integral quotient of x/y, where n is an
   implementation-defined integer greater than or equal to 3).

   If y is zero, the value stored in *quo is unspecified.

   If a domain error occurs, an implementation-defined value is returned (NaN where
   supported)

   If a range error occurs due to underflow, the correct result is returned if
   subnormals are supported.

   If y is zero, but the domain error does not occur, zero is returned.

.SH Error handling

   Errors are reported as specified in math_errhandling

   Domain error may occur if y is zero.

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * The current rounding mode has no effect.
     * FE_INEXACT is never raised
     * If x is ±∞ and y is not NaN, NaN is returned and FE_INVALID is raised
     * If y is ±0 and x is not NaN, NaN is returned and FE_INVALID is raised
     * If either x or y is NaN, NaN is returned

.SH Notes

   POSIX requires that a domain error occurs if x is infinite or y is zero.

   This function is useful when implementing periodic functions with the period exactly
   representable as a floating-point value: when calculating sin(πx) for a very large
   x, calling std::sin directly may result in a large error, but if the function
   argument is first reduced with std::remquo, the low-order bits of the quotient may
   be used to determine the sign and the octant of the result within the period, while
   the remainder may be used to calculate the value with high precision.

   On some platforms this operation is supported by hardware (and, for example, on
   Intel CPUs, FPREM1 leaves exactly 3 bits of precision in the quotient when
   complete).

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <cfenv>
  
 #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS ON
 const double pi = std::acos(-1);
 double cos_pi_x_naive(double x) { return std::cos(pi * x); }
 // the period is 2, values are (0;0.5) positive, (0.5;1.5) negative, (1.5,2) positive
 double cos_pi_x_smart(double x)
 {
     int quadrant;
     double rem = std::remquo(x, 1, &quadrant);
     quadrant = (unsigned)quadrant % 2;  // The period is 2.
     switch(quadrant) {
         case 0: return std::cos(pi * rem);
         case 1: return -std::cos(pi * rem);
     };
 }
 int main()
 {
     std::cout << "cos(pi * 0.25) = " << cos_pi_x_naive(0.25) << '\\n'
               << "cos(pi * 1.25) = " << cos_pi_x_naive(1.25) << '\\n'
               << "cos(pi * 2.25) = " << cos_pi_x_naive(2.25) << '\\n'
               << "cos(pi * 0.25) = " << cos_pi_x_smart(0.25) << '\\n'
               << "cos(pi * 1.25) = " << cos_pi_x_smart(1.25) << '\\n'
               << "cos(pi * 2.25) = " << cos_pi_x_smart(2.25) << '\\n'
               << "cos(pi * 1000000000000.25) = "
               << cos_pi_x_naive(1000000000000.25) << '\\n'
               << "cos(pi * 1000000000001.25) = "
               << cos_pi_x_naive(1000000000001.25) << '\\n'
               << "cos(pi * 1000000000000.25) = "
               << cos_pi_x_smart(1000000000000.25) << '\\n'
               << "cos(pi * 1000000000001.25) = "
               << cos_pi_x_smart(1000000000001.25) << '\\n';
     // error handling
     std::feclearexcept(FE_ALL_EXCEPT);
     int quo;
     std::cout << "remquo(+Inf, 1) = " << std::remquo(INFINITY, 1, &quo) << '\\n';
     if(fetestexcept(FE_INVALID)) std::cout << "    FE_INVALID raised\\n";
 }

.SH Possible output:

 cos(pi * 0.25) = 0.707107
 cos(pi * 1.25) = -0.707107
 cos(pi * 2.25) = 0.707107
 cos(pi * 0.25) = 0.707107
 cos(pi * 1.25) = -0.707107
 cos(pi * 2.25) = 0.707107
 cos(pi * 1000000000000.25) = 0.707123
 cos(pi * 1000000000001.25) = -0.707117
 cos(pi * 1000000000000.25) = 0.707107
 cos(pi * 1000000000001.25) = -0.707107
 remquo(+Inf, 1) = -nan
     FE_INVALID raised

.SH See also

   div(int)
   ldiv      computes quotient and remainder of integer division
   lldiv     \fI(function)\fP 
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   fmod      remainder of the floating point division operation
             \fI(function)\fP 
   remainder signed remainder of the division operation
   \fI(C++11)\fP   \fI(function)\fP 
   C documentation for
   remquo
