.TH std::ranges::view::iota,std::ranges::iota_view 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::view::iota,std::ranges::iota_view \- std::ranges::view::iota,std::ranges::iota_view

.SH Synopsis
   template<WeaklyIncrementable W, Semiregular Bound =
   unreachable_sentinel_t>
                                                                      \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   requires _WeaklyEqualityComparableWith<W, Bound>

   class iota_view : public view_interface<iota_view<W, Bound>>
   namespace view {

   inline constexpr /*unspecified*/ iota = /*unspecified*/;           \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   }

   1) A range factory that generates a sequence of elements by repeatedly incrementing
   an initial value. Can be both bounded and unbounded (infinite)
   2) view::iota(E) and view::iota(E, F) are expression-equivalent to (has the same
   effect as) iota_view{E} and iota_view{E, F} respectively for any suitable
   subexpressions E and F

  Data members

std::ranges::iota_view::base_

   W value_ = W(); /* exposition-only */

   the current value

std::ranges::iota_view::pred_

   Bound bound_ = Bound(); /* exposition-only */

   the bound (defaults to std::unreachable_sentinel_t)

.SH Member functions

std::ranges::iota_view::iota_view

   iota_view() = default;                             \fB(1)\fP
   constexpr explicit iota_view(W value);             \fB(2)\fP
   constexpr iota_view(std::type_identity_t<W> value, \fB(3)\fP
   std::type_identity_t<Bound> bound);

   1) Default-initializes value_ and bound_
   2) Initializes value_ with value and expects that Bound is either
   unreachable_sentinel_t (the default) or Bound() is reachable from value. This
   constructor is used to create unbounded iota views, e.g. iota\fB(0)\fP yields numbers
   0,1,2..., infinitely.
   3) Initializes value_ with value and bound_ with bound. This constructor is used to
   create bounded iota views, e.g. iota(10, 20) yields numbers from 10 to 19.

.SH Parameters

   value - the starting value
   bound - the bound

std::ranges::iota_view::begin

   constexpr iterator begin();

   Returns the iterator initialized with value_

std::ranges::iota_view::end

   constexpr sentinel end() const;                         \fB(1)\fP
   constexpr iterator end() const requires Same<W, Bound>; \fB(2)\fP

   Returns the iterator initialized with bound_ if this view is bounded, or the
   sentinel initialized with bound_ if this view is unbounded.

std::ranges::iota_view::size

   constexpr auto size() const

   requires (Same<W, Bound> && _Advanceable<W>) ||
   (Integral<W> && Integral<Bound>) ||
   SizedSentinel<Bound, W>

   { return bound_ - value_; }

   Returns the size of the view if the view is bounded.

  Deduction guides

   template<class W, class Bound>

   requires (!Integral<W> || !Integral<Bound> || is_signed_v<W> ==
   is_signed_v<Bound>)

   iota_view(W, Bound) -> iota_view<W, Bound>;

   Note that the guide protects itself against signed/unsigned mismatch bugs, like
   view::iota(0, v.size()), where 0 is a (signed) int and v.size() is an (unsigned)
   std::size_t.

  Nested classes

std::ranges::iota_view::iterator

   template<class W, class Bound>
   struct iota_view<W, Bound>::iterator /* exposition-only */

   The return type of iota_view::begin.

   This is a RandomAccessIterator if W models _Advanceable, a BidirectionalIterator if
   W models _Decrementable, a ForwardIterator if W models Incrementable, and
   InputIterator otherwise.

std::ranges::iota_view::iterator::iterator

   constexpr explicit iterator(W value);

   Initializes exposition-only data member value_ with value. This value will be
   returned by operator* and incremented by operator++

std::ranges::iota_view::iterator::operator*

   constexpr W operator*() const noexcept(is_nothrow_copy_constructible_v<W>);

   returns the current value, by value (in other words, this is a read-only view)

std::ranges::iota_view::iterator::operator++

   constexpr iterator& operator++()

   Equivalent to

 ++value_;
 return *this;

std::ranges::iota_view::iterator::operator--

   constexpr iterator& operator--() requires _Decrementable<W>;

   Equivalent to

 --value_;
 return *this;

std::ranges::iota_view::iterator::operator[]

   constexpr W operator[](difference_type n) const requires _Advanceable<W>;

   Equivalent to

 return value_ + n;

   Other members as expected of an iterator.

std::ranges::iota_view::sentinel

   template<class W, class Bound>
   struct iota_view<W, Bound>::sentinel /* exposition-only */

   The return type of iota_view::end.

std::ranges::iota_view::sentinel::bound_

   Bound bound_ = Bound();; /* exposition only */

   Exposition-only data member holding the sentinel (typically either a number, for a
   bounded iota view, or an instance of std::unreachable_sentinel_t for an unbounded
   iota view.

std::ranges::iota_view::sentinel::sentinel

   entinel() = default;
   constexpr explicit sentinel(Bound bound);

   Initializes exposition-only data member bound_ with bound.

std::ranges::iota_view::sentinel::operator==

   friend constexpr bool operator==(const iterator& x, const sentinel& y);
   friend constexpr bool operator==(const sentinel& x, const iterator& y);

   Equivalent to: x.value_ == y.bound_; and return y == x; respectively.

std::ranges::iota_view::sentinel::operator!=

   friend constexpr bool operator!=(const iterator& x, const sentinel& y);
   friend constexpr bool operator!=(const sentinel& x, const iterator& y);

   Equivalent to return !(x == y); and return !(y == x); respectively

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <ranges>
 #include <vector>
 #include <iostream>

 int main()
 {
   for (int i : std::view::iota{1, 10})
     std::cout << i << ' ';

   std::cout << '\\n';

   for (int i : std::view::iota(1) | std::view::take(9))
     std::cout << i << ' ';
 }

.SH Output:

 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
