.TH std::frexp 3 "Sep  4 2015" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float frexp( float arg, int* exp );             \fB(1)\fP
   double frexp( double arg, int* exp );           \fB(2)\fP
   long double frexp( long double arg, int* exp ); \fB(3)\fP
   double frexp( Integral arg, int* exp );         \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   1-3) Decomposes given floating point value arg into a normalized fraction and an
   integral power of two.
   4) A set of overloads or a function template accepting an argument of any integral
   type. Equivalent to \fB(2)\fP (the argument is cast to double).

.SH Parameters

   arg - floating point value
   exp - pointer to integer value to store the exponent to

.SH Return value

   If arg is zero, returns zero and stores zero in *exp.

   Otherwise (if arg is not zero), if no errors occur, returns the value x in the range
   (-1;-0.5], [0.5; 1) and stores an integer value in *exp such that x×2(*exp)
   =arg

   If the value to be stored in *exp is outside the range of int, the behavior is
   unspecified.

   If arg is not a floating-point number, the behavior is unspecified.

.SH Error handling

   This function is not subject to any errors specified in math_errhandling

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * If arg is ±0, it is returned, unmodified, and 0 is stored in *exp.
     * If arg is ±∞, it is returned, and an unspecified value is stored in *exp.
     * If arg is NaN, NaN is returned, and an unspecified value is stored in *exp.
     * No floating-point exceptions are raised.
     * If FLT_RADIX is 2 (or a power of 2), the returned value is exact, the current
       rounding mode is ignored

.SH Notes

   On a binary system (where FLT_RADIX is 2), frexp may be implemented as

 {
     *exp = (value == 0) ? 0 : (int)(1 + std::logb(value));
     return std::scalbn(value, -(*exp));
 }

   The function std::frexp, together with its dual, std::ldexp, can be used to
   manipulate the representation of a floating-point number without direct bit
   manipulations.

.SH Example

   Compares different floating-point decomposition functions

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <limits>

 int main()
 {
     double f = 123.45;
     std::cout << "Given the number " << f << " or " << std::hexfloat
               << f << std::defaultfloat << " in hex,\\n";

     double f3;
     double f2 = std::modf(f, &f3);
     std::cout << "modf() makes " << f3 << " + " << f2 << '\\n';

     int i;
     f2 = std::frexp(f, &i);
     std::cout << "frexp() makes " << f2 << " * 2^" << i << '\\n';

     i = std::ilogb(f);
     std::cout << "logb()/ilogb() make " << f/std::scalbn(1.0, i) << " * "
               << std::numeric_limits<double>::radix
               << "^" << std::ilogb(f) << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Given the number 123.45 or 0x1.edccccccccccdp+6 in hex,
 modf() makes 123 + 0.45
 frexp() makes 0.964453 * 2^7
 logb()/ilogb() make 1.92891 * 2^6

.SH See also

   ldexp   multiplies a number by 2 raised to a power
           \fI(function)\fP
   logb    extracts exponent of the number
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function)\fP
   ilogb   extracts exponent of the number
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function)\fP
   modf    decomposes a number into integer and fractional parts
           \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   frexp
