.TH std::mktime 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::mktime \- std::mktime

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <ctime>
   std::time_t mktime( std::tm* time );

   Converts local calendar time to a time since epoch as a time_t object. time->tm_wday
   and time->tm_yday are ignored. The values in time are permitted to be outside their
   normal ranges.

   A negative value of time->tm_isdst causes mktime to attempt to determine if Daylight
   Saving Time was in effect.

   If the conversion is successful, the time object is modified. All fields of time are
   updated to fit their proper ranges. time->tm_wday and time->tm_yday are recalculated
   using information available in other fields.

.SH Parameters

   time - pointer to a std::tm object specifying local calendar time to convert

.SH Return value

   Time since epoch as a std::time_t object on success or -1 if time cannot be
   represented as a std::time_t object.

.SH Notes

   If the std::tm object was obtained from std::get_time or the POSIX strptime, the
   value of tm_isdst is indeterminate, and needs to be set explicitly before calling
   mktime.

.SH Example

   Display the time 100 months ago.


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <ctime>
 #include <stdlib.h>

 int main()
 {
     setenv("TZ", "/usr/share/zoneinfo/America/New_York", 1); // POSIX-specific

     std::time_t t = std::time(nullptr);
     std::tm tm = *std::localtime(&t);
     std::cout << "Today is           " << std::put_time(&tm, "%c %Z")
               << " and DST is " << (tm.tm_isdst ? "in effect" : "not in effect") << '\\n';
     tm.tm_mon -= 100;  // tm_mon is now outside its normal range
     std::mktime(&tm);  // tm_dst is not set to -1; today's DST status is used
     std::cout << "100 months ago was " << std::put_time(&tm, "%c %Z")
               << " and DST was " << (tm.tm_isdst ? "in effect" : "not in effect") << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 Today is           Fri Apr 22 11:40:36 2016 EDT and DST is in effect
 100 months ago was Sat Dec 22 10:40:36 2007 EST and DST was not in effect

.SH See also

   localtime converts time since epoch to calendar time expressed as local time
             \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   mktime
