.TH std::range_error 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::range_error \- std::range_error

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <stdexcept>
   class range_error;

   Defines a type of object to be thrown as exception. It can be used to report range
   errors (that is, situations where a result of a computation cannot be represented by
   the destination type).

   The only standard library components that throw this exception are
   std::wstring_convert::from_bytes and std::wstring_convert::to_bytes.

   The mathematical functions in the standard library components do not throw this
   exception (mathematical functions report range errors as specified in
   math_errhandling).

   std-range error-inheritance.svg

                                   Inheritance diagram

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs a new range_error object with the given message
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=     replaces the range_error object
                 \fI(public member function)\fP

std::range_error::range_error

   range_error( const std::string& what_arg ); \fB(1)\fP
   range_error( const char* what_arg );        \fB(2)\fP
   range_error( const range_error& other );    \fB(3)\fP (noexcept since C++11)

   1) Constructs the exception object with what_arg as explanatory string. After
   construction, std::strcmp(what(), what_arg.c_str()) == 0.
   2) Constructs the exception object with what_arg as explanatory string. After
   construction, std::strcmp(what(), what_arg) == 0.
   3) Copy constructor. If *this and other both have dynamic type std::range_error then
   std::strcmp(what(), other.what()) == 0. No exception can be thrown from the copy
   constructor.

.SH Parameters

   what_arg - explanatory string
   other    - another exception object to copy

.SH Exceptions

   1,2) May throw std::bad_alloc.

.SH Notes

   Because copying std::range_error is not permitted to throw exceptions, this message
   is typically stored internally as a separately-allocated reference-counted string.
   This is also why there is no constructor taking std::string&&: it would have to copy
   the content anyway.

   Before the resolution of LWG issue 254, the non-copy constructor can only accept
   std::string. It makes dynamic allocation mandatory in order to construct a
   std::string object.

   After the resolution of LWG issue 471, a derived standard exception class must have
   a publicly accessible copy constructor. It can be implicitly defined as long as the
   explanatory strings obtained by what() are the same for the original object and the
   copied object.

std::range_error::operator=

   range_error& operator=( const range_error& other );  (noexcept since C++11)

   Assigns the contents with those of other. If *this and other both have dynamic type
   std::range_error then std::strcmp(what(), other.what()) == 0 after assignment. No
   exception can be thrown from the copy assignment operator.

.SH Parameters

   other - another exception object to assign with

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Notes

   After the resolution of LWG issue 471, a derived standard exception class must have
   a publicly accessible copy assignment operator. It can be implicitly defined as long
   as the explanatory strings obtained by what() are the same for the original object
   and the copied object.

Inherited from std::runtime_error

Inherited from std::exception

.SH Member functions

   destructor   destroys the exception object
   \fB[virtual]\fP    \fI(virtual public member function of std::exception)\fP
   what         returns an explanatory string
   \fB[virtual]\fP    \fI(virtual public member function of std::exception)\fP

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

     DR    Applied to          Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 254 C++98      the constructor accepting const char*   added
                      was missing
                      the explanatory strings of              they are the same as that
   LWG 471 C++98      std::range_error's                      of the
                      copies were implementation-defined      original std::range_error
                                                              object
