.TH std::future::wait_for 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::future::wait_for \- std::future::wait_for

.SH Synopsis
   template< class Rep, class Period >
   std::future_status wait_for( const std::chrono::duration<Rep,Period>&  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   timeout_duration ) const;

   Waits for the result to become available. Blocks until specified timeout_duration
   has elapsed or the result becomes available, whichever comes first. The return value
   identifies the state of the result.

   If the future is the result of a call to std::async that used lazy evaluation, this
   function returns immediately without waiting.

   This function may block for longer than timeout_duration due to scheduling or
   resource contention delays.

   The standard recommends that a steady clock is used to measure the duration. If an
   implementation uses a system clock instead, the wait time may also be sensitive to
   clock adjustments.

   The behavior is undefined if valid() is false before the call to this function.

.SH Parameters

   timeout_duration - maximum duration to block for

.SH Return value

   Constant                Explanation
                           The shared state contains a deferred function using lazy
   future_status::deferred evaluation, so the result will be computed only when
                           explicitly requested
   future_status::ready    The result is ready
   future_status::timeout  The timeout has expired

.SH Exceptions

   Any exception thrown by clock, time_point, or duration during the execution (clocks,
   time points, and durations provided by the standard library never throw)

.SH Notes

   The implementations are encouraged to detect the case when valid == false before the
   call and throw a std::future_error with an error condition of
   std::future_errc::no_state.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <future>
 #include <thread>
 #include <chrono>
 using namespace std::chrono_literals;

 int main()
 {
     std::future<int> future = std::async(std::launch::async, [](){
         std::this_thread::sleep_for(3s);
         return 8;
     });

     std::cout << "waiting...\\n";
     std::future_status status;
     do {
         switch(status = future.wait_for(1s); status) {
             case std::future_status::deferred: std::cout << "deferred\\n"; break;
             case std::future_status::timeout: std::cout << "timeout\\n"; break;
             case std::future_status::ready: std::cout << "ready!\\n"; break;
         }
     } while (status != std::future_status::ready);

     std::cout << "result is " << future.get() << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 waiting...
 timeout
 timeout
 timeout
 ready!
 result is 8

.SH See also

   wait       waits for the result to become available
              \fI(public member function)\fP
              waits for the result, returns if it is not available until specified time
   wait_until point has been reached
              \fI(public member function)\fP
