.TH std::experimental::barrier 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::barrier \- std::experimental::barrier

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/barrier>
   class barrier;                            (concurrency TS)

   The class std::experimental::barrier provides a thread-coordination mechanism that
   allows a set of participating threads to block until an operation is completed.
   Unlike std::experimental::latch, barriers are reusable; once the participating
   threads are released from a barrier's synchronization point, they can reuse the same
   barrier.

   A barrier has a completion phase, which is executed by one of the participating
   threads once all threads in the set of participating threads arrive at the
   synchronization point. The arrive_and_wait and arrive_and_drop calls synchronize
   with the start of the completion phase; the end of the completion phase synchronizes
   with the returns from all calls blocked by its completion.

   For std::experimental::barrier, the completion phase is empty.
   std::experimental::flex_barrier allows the user to control the completion phase with
   a function object.

   The set of participating threads for a barrier constructed for num_threads threads
   is the first num_threads threads to arrive at its synchronization point after
   construction. The same set of threads (except for threads that called
   arrive_and_drop()) must arrive at the barrier each cycle.

.SH Member functions

   constructor     constructs a barrier
                   \fI(public member function)\fP 
   destructor      destroys the barrier
                   \fI(public member function)\fP 
   operator=       not copy-assignable
   [deleted]       \fI(public member function)\fP 
   arrive_and_wait arrive at the synchronization point and block
                   \fI(public member function)\fP 
                   arrive at the synchronization point and remove the current thread
   arrive_and_drop from the set of participating threads
                   \fI(public member function)\fP 
