.TH std::tanh(std::valarray) 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::tanh(std::valarray) \- std::tanh(std::valarray)

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <valarray>
   template< class T >
   valarray<T> tanh( const valarray<T>& va );

   For each element in va computes hyperbolic tangent of the value of the element.

.SH Parameters

   va - value array to apply the operation to

.SH Return value

   Value array containing hyperbolic tangent of the values in va.

.SH Notes

   Unqualified function (tanh) is used to perform the computation. If such function is
   not available, std::tanh is used due to argument dependent lookup.

   The function can be implemented with the return type different from std::valarray.
   In this case, the replacement type has the following properties:

     * All const member functions of std::valarray are provided.
     * std::valarray, std::slice_array, std::gslice_array, std::mask_array and
       std::indirect_array can be constructed from the replacement type.
     * All functions accepting an argument of type const std::valarray&
       except begin() and end()
       \fI(since C++11)\fP should also accept the replacement type.
     * All functions accepting two arguments of type const std::valarray& should accept
       every combination of const std::valarray& and the replacement type.
     * The return type does not add more than two levels of template nesting over the
       most deeply-nested argument type.

.SH Possible implementation

   template<class T>
   valarray<T> tanh(const valarray<T>& va)
   {
       valarray<T> other = va;
       for (T &i : other) {
           i = tanh(i);
       }
       return other;
   }

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cmath>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <valarray>

 auto show = [](char const* title, const std::valarray<double>& va) {
     std::cout << title << " :";
     for(auto x : va)
         std::cout << "  " << std::fixed << x;
     std::cout << '\\n';
 };

 int main()
 {
     const std::valarray<double> x = {.0, .1, .2, .3};
     const std::valarray<double> sinh = std::sinh(x);
     const std::valarray<double> cosh = std::cosh(x);
     const std::valarray<double> tanh = std::tanh(x);
     const std::valarray<double> tanh_by_def = sinh / cosh;
     const std::valarray<double> tanh_2x = std::tanh(2.0 * x);
     const std::valarray<double> tanh_2x_by_def =
         (2.0 * tanh) / (1.0 + std::pow(tanh, 2.0));

     show("x              ", x);
     show("tanh(x)        ", tanh);
     show("tanh(x) (def)  ", tanh_by_def);
     show("tanh(2*x)      ", tanh_2x);
     show("tanh(2*x) (def)", tanh_2x_by_def);
 }

.SH Output:

 x               :  0.000000  0.100000  0.200000  0.300000
 tanh(x)         :  0.000000  0.099668  0.197375  0.291313
 tanh(x) (def)   :  0.000000  0.099668  0.197375  0.291313
 tanh(2*x)       :  0.000000  0.197375  0.379949  0.537050
 tanh(2*x) (def) :  0.000000  0.197375  0.379949  0.537050

.SH See also

   sinh(std::valarray) applies the function std::sinh to each element of valarray
                       \fI(function template)\fP
   cosh(std::valarray) applies the function std::cosh to each element of valarray
                       \fI(function template)\fP
   tanh
   tanhf               computes hyperbolic tangent (\\({\\small\\tanh{x} }\\)tanh(x))
   tanhl               \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
                       computes hyperbolic tangent of a complex number
   tanh(std::complex)  (\\({\\small\\tanh{z} }\\)tanh(z))
                       \fI(function template)\fP

.SH Hidden category:

     * Pages with unreviewed LWG DR marker
