.TH std::is_sorted 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::is_sorted \- std::is_sorted

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class ForwardIt >                              \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   bool is_sorted( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last );           (constexpr since C++20)
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class ForwardIt >

   bool is_sorted( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,                \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP

                   ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last );
   template< class ForwardIt, class Compare >                   \fI(since C++11)\fP
   bool is_sorted( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last, Compare \fB(3)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   comp );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class ForwardIt, class
   Compare >

   bool is_sorted( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,                \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP

                   ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last, Compare
   comp );

   Checks if the elements in range [first, last) are sorted in non-descending order.

   1) Checks if the elements are sorted with respect to
   operator<
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::less{}
   \fI(since C++20)\fP.
   3) Checks if the elements are sorted with respect to comp.
   2,4) Same as (1,3), but executed according to policy.
   These overloads participate in overload resolution only if

   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true.        (until
                                                                             C++20)
   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::remove_cvref_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true. (since
                                                                             C++20)

.SH Parameters

   first, last - the range of elements to examine
   policy      - the execution policy to use. See execution policy for details.
                 comparison function object (i.e. an object that satisfies the
                 requirements of Compare) which returns true if the first argument is
                 less than (i.e. is ordered before) the second.

                 The signature of the comparison function should be equivalent to the
                 following:

                 bool cmp(const Type1& a, const Type2& b);
   comp        -
                 While the signature does not need to have const&, the function must
                 not modify the objects passed to it and must be able to accept all
                 values of type (possibly const) Type1 and Type2 regardless of value
                 category (thus, Type1& is not allowed
                 , nor is Type1 unless for Type1 a move is equivalent to a copy
                 \fI(since C++11)\fP).
                 The types Type1 and Type2 must be such that an object of type
                 ForwardIt can be dereferenced and then implicitly converted to both of
                 them.
.SH Type requirements
   -
   ForwardIt must meet the requirements of LegacyForwardIterator.
   -
   Compare must meet the requirements of Compare.

.SH Return value

   true if the elements in the range are sorted in non-descending order, false
   otherwise.

.SH Complexity

   Given \\(\\scriptsize N\\)N as std::distance(first, last):

   1,2) \\(\\scriptsize O(N)\\)O(N) comparisons using
   operator<
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::less{}
   \fI(since C++20)\fP.
   3,4) \\(\\scriptsize O(N)\\)O(N) applications of the comparator comp.

.SH Exceptions

   The overloads with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy report errors as
   follows:

     * If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception
       and ExecutionPolicy is one of the standard policies, std::terminate is called.
       For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.
     * If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

.SH Possible implementation

   See also the implementations in libstdc++ and libc++.

                           is_sorted \fB(1)\fP
   template<class ForwardIt>
   bool is_sorted(ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last)
   {
       return std::is_sorted_until(first, last) == last;
   }
                           is_sorted \fB(3)\fP
   template<class ForwardIt, class Compare>
   bool is_sorted(ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last, Compare comp)
   {
       return std::is_sorted_until(first, last, comp) == last;
   }

.SH Notes

   std::is_sorted returns true for empty ranges and ranges of length one.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <cassert>
 #include <functional>
 #include <iterator>
 #include <vector>

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> v;
     assert(std::is_sorted(v.cbegin(), v.cend()) && "an empty range is always sorted");
     v.push_back(42);
     assert(std::is_sorted(v.cbegin(), v.cend()) && "a range of size 1 is always sorted");

     int data[] = {3, 1, 4, 1, 5};
     assert(not std::is_sorted(std::begin(data), std::end(data)));

     std::sort(std::begin(data), std::end(data));
     assert(std::is_sorted(std::begin(data), std::end(data)));
     assert(not std::is_sorted(std::begin(data), std::end(data), std::greater<>{}));
 }

.SH See also

   is_sorted_until   finds the largest sorted subrange
   \fI(C++11)\fP           \fI(function template)\fP
   ranges::is_sorted checks whether a range is sorted into ascending order
   (C++20)           (niebloid)
