.TH std::identity 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::identity \- std::identity

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <functional>
   struct identity;                \fI(since C++20)\fP

   std::identity is a function object type whose operator() returns its argument
   unchanged.

.SH Member types

   Member type    Definition
   is_transparent /* unspecified */

.SH Member functions

   operator() returns the argument unchanged
              \fI(public member function)\fP

std::identity::operator()

   template< class T>
   constexpr T&& operator()( T&& t ) const noexcept;

   Returns std::forward<T>(t).

.SH Parameters

   t - argument to return

.SH Return value

   std::forward<T>(t).

.SH Notes

   The member type is_transparent indicates to the caller that this function object is
   a transparent function object: it accepts arguments of arbitrary types and uses
   perfect forwarding, which avoids unnecessary copying and conversion when the
   function object is used in heterogeneous context, or with rvalue arguments. In
   particular, template functions such as std::set::find and std::set::lower_bound make
   use of this member type on their Compare types.

   std::identity serves as the default projection in constrained algorithms. Its direct
   usage is usually not needed.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <functional>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <ranges>
 #include <string>
 #include <vector>

 struct Pair {
     int n; std::string s;
     friend std::ostream& operator<< (std::ostream& os, const Pair& p) {
         return os << "{ " << p.n << ", " << p.s << " }";
     }
 };

 // A range-printer that can print projected (modified) elements of a range.
 template <std::ranges::input_range R,
           typename Projection = std::identity> //<- Notice the default projection
 void print(std::string_view const rem, R&& r, Projection proj = {}) {
     std::cout << rem << "{ ";
     std::ranges::for_each(r, [](const auto& o){ std::cout << o << ' '; }, proj);
     std::cout << "}\\n";
 }

 int main()
 {
     const std::vector<Pair> v{ {1, "one"}, {2, "two"}, {3, "three"} };

     print("Print using std::identity as a projection: ", v);
     print("Project the Pair::n: ", v, &Pair::n);
     print("Project the Pair::s: ", v, &Pair::s);
     print("Print using custom closure as a projection: ", v,
         [](Pair const& p) { return std::to_string(p.n) + ':' + p.s; });
 }

.SH Output:

 Print using std::identity as a projection: { { 1, one } { 2, two } { 3, three } }
 Project the Pair::n: { 1 2 3 }
 Project the Pair::s: { one two three }
 Print using custom closure as a projection: { 1:one 2:two 3:three }

.SH See also

   type_identity returns the type argument unchanged
   (C++20)       \fI(class template)\fP
