.TH std::vector::insert_range 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::vector::insert_range \- std::vector::insert_range

.SH Synopsis
   template< container-compatible-range<T> R >                     (since C++23)
   constexpr iterator insert_range( const_iterator pos, R&& rg );

   Inserts, in non-reversing order, copies of elements in rg before pos.

   If after the operation the new size() is greater than old capacity() a reallocation
   takes place, in which case all iterators (including the end() iterator) and all
   references to the elements are invalidated. Otherwise, only the iterators and
   references before the insertion point remain valid.

   Each iterator in the range rg is dereferenced exactly once.

   The behavior is undefined if rg overlaps with the container.

.SH Parameters

   pos             -             iterator before which the content will be inserted
                                 (pos may be the end() iterator)
   rg              -             a container compatible range, that is, an input_range
                                 whose elements are convertible to T
.SH Type requirements
   -
   T must be EmplaceConstructible into vector from *ranges::begin(rg). Also, T must be
   MoveInsertable into vector and T satisfies MoveConstructible, MoveAssignable, and
   Swappable. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

.SH Return value

   An iterator that points at the copy of the first element inserted into vector or at
   pos if rg is empty.

.SH Notes

       Feature-test macro       Value    Std                   Feature
   __cpp_lib_containers_ranges 202202L (C++23) Ranges-aware construction and insertion

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <cassert>
 #include <iterator>
 #include <vector>
 #include <list>

 int main()
 {
     auto container = std::vector{1, 2, 3, 4};
     auto pos = std::next(container.begin(), 2);
     assert(*pos == 3);
     const auto rg = std::list{-1, -2, -3};

 #ifdef __cpp_lib_containers_ranges
     container.insert_range(pos, rg);
 #else
     container.insert(pos, rg.cbegin(), rg.cend());
 #endif
     assert(std::ranges::equal(container, std::vector{1, 2, -1, -2, -3, 3, 4}));
 }

.SH See also

   insert       inserts elements
                \fI(public member function)\fP
   append_range adds a range of elements to the end
   (C++23)      \fI(public member function)\fP
