.TH std::basic_regex<CharT,Traits>::assign 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_regex<CharT,Traits>::assign \- std::basic_regex<CharT,Traits>::assign

.SH Synopsis
   basic_regex& assign( const basic_regex& other );                \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   basic_regex& assign( basic_regex&& that ) noexcept;             \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   basic_regex& assign( const CharT* s,                            \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   flag_type f = std::regex_constants::ECMAScript );
   basic_regex& assign( const charT* ptr, size_t count,            \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   flag_type f = std::regex_constants::ECMAScript );
   template< class ST, class SA >

   basic_regex& assign( const std::basic_string<CharT,ST,SA>& str, \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   flag_type f = std::regex_constants::ECMAScript );
   template< class InputIt >

   basic_regex& assign( InputIt first, InputIt last,               \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   flag_type f = std::regex_constants::ECMAScript );
   basic_regex& assign( std::initializer_list<CharT> ilist,        \fB(7)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   flag_type f = std::regex_constants::ECMAScript );

   Assigns the contents to the regular expression.

   1) Assigns the contents of other. flags() and mark_count() are equivalent to the
   values of other.flags() and other.mark_count() after the call.
   2) Assigns the contents of other using move semantics. flags() and mark_count() are
   equivalent to the values of other.flags() and other.mark_count() before the
   assignment. After the call, other is in a valid, but unspecified state.
   3-7) Assigns a sequence of characters to the regular expression. The syntax flags
   are set to f. mark_count() returns the number of marked subexpressions within the
   resulting subexpression after the call.
   3) Assigns a null-terminated string pointed to by s.
   4) Assigns a sequence of count characters, pointed to by s.
   5) Assigns the string str.
   6) Assigns the characters in the range [first, last).
   7) Assigns the characters in the initializer list ilist.

.SH Parameters

   other       - another regular expression to assign
   s           - pointer to a character sequence to assign
   str         - string to assign
   first, last - the range of characters to assign
   ilist       - initializer list containing characters to assign
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of LegacyInputIterator.

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Exceptions

   1-2) \fI(none)\fP
   3-7) std::regex_error if the supplied regular expression is not valid. The object is
   not modified in that case.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   operator= assigns the contents
             \fI(public member function)\fP
