.TH std::forward_list<T,Allocator>::insert_after 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::forward_list<T,Allocator>::insert_after \- std::forward_list<T,Allocator>::insert_after

.SH Synopsis
   iterator insert_after( const_iterator pos, const T& value );       \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iterator insert_after( const_iterator pos, T&& value );            \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iterator insert_after( const_iterator pos, size_type count, const  \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   T& value );
   template< class InputIt >
   iterator insert_after( const_iterator pos, InputIt first, InputIt  \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   last );
   iterator insert_after( const_iterator pos,                         \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::initializer_list<T> ilist );

   Inserts elements after the specified position in the container.

   1-2) inserts value after the element pointed to by pos
   3) inserts count copies of the value after the element pointed to by pos
   4) inserts elements from range [first, last) after the element pointed to by pos.
   The behavior is undefined if first and last are iterators into *this.
   5) inserts elements from initializer list ilist.

   No iterators or references are invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   pos         - iterator after which the content will be inserted
   value       - element value to insert
   count       - number of copies to insert
   first, last - the range of elements to insert
   ilist       - initializer list to insert the values from
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of LegacyInputIterator.

.SH Return value

   1-2) Iterator to the inserted element.
   3) Iterator to the last element inserted, or pos if count==0.
   4) Iterator to the last element inserted, or pos if first==last.
   5) Iterator to the last element inserted, or pos if ilist is empty.

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown during insert_after there are no effects (strong exception
   guarantee).

.SH Complexity

   1-2) Constant.
   3) Linear in count
   4) Linear in std::distance(first, last)
   5) Linear in ilist.size()

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <forward_list>
 #include <string>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <vector>

 template<typename T>
 std::ostream& operator<<(std::ostream& s, const std::forward_list<T>& v) {
     s.put('[');
     char comma[3] = {'\\0', ' ', '\\0'};
     for (const auto& e : v) {
         s << comma << e;
         comma[0] = ',';
     }
     return s << ']';
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::forward_list<std::string> words {"the", "frogurt", "is", "also", "cursed"};
     std::cout << "words: " << words << '\\n';

     // insert_after (2)
     auto beginIt = words.begin();
     words.insert_after(beginIt, "strawberry");
     std::cout << "words: " << words << '\\n';

     // insert_after (3)
     auto anotherIt = beginIt;
     ++anotherIt;
     anotherIt = words.insert_after(anotherIt, 2, "strawberry");
     std::cout << "words: " << words << '\\n';

     // insert_after (4)
     std::vector<std::string> V = { "apple", "banana", "cherry"};
     anotherIt = words.insert_after(anotherIt, V.begin(), V.end());
     std::cout << "words: " << words << '\\n';

     // insert_after (5)
     words.insert_after(anotherIt, {"jackfruit", "kiwifruit", "lime", "mango"});
     std::cout << "words: " << words << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 words: [the, frogurt, is, also, cursed]
 words: [the, strawberry, frogurt, is, also, cursed]
 words: [the, strawberry, strawberry, strawberry, frogurt, is, also, cursed]
 words: [the, strawberry, strawberry, strawberry, apple, banana, cherry, frogurt, is, also, cursed]
 words: [the, strawberry, strawberry, strawberry, apple, banana, cherry, jackfruit, kiwifruit, lime, mango, frogurt, is, also, cursed]

.SH See also

   emplace_after constructs elements in-place after an element
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   push_front    inserts an element to the beginning
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
