.TH std::map::operator= 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::map::operator= \- std::map::operator=

.SH Synopsis
   map& operator=( const map& other );                        \fB(1)\fP
   map& operator=( map&& other );                                     \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                              \fB(2)\fP     \fI(until C++17)\fP
   map& operator=( map&& other ) noexcept(/* see below */);           \fI(since C++17)\fP
   map& operator=( std::initializer_list<value_type> ilist );     \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Replaces the contents of the container.

   1) Copy assignment operator. Replaces the contents with a copy of the contents of
   other.

If
std::allocator_traits<allocator_type>::propagate_on_container_copy_assignment::value
is true, the allocator of *this is replaced by a copy of that of other. If the
allocator of *this after assignment would compare unequal to its old value, the old  (since
allocator is used to deallocate the memory, then the new allocator is used to        C++11)
allocate it before copying the elements. Otherwise, the memory owned by *this may be
reused when possible. In any case, the elements originally belong to *this may be
either destroyed or replaced by element-wise copy-assignment.

   2) Move assignment operator. Replaces the contents with those of other using move
   semantics (i.e. the data in other is moved from other into this container). other is
   in a valid but unspecified state afterwards.
   If
   std::allocator_traits<allocator_type>::propagate_on_container_move_assignment::value
   is true, the allocator of *this is replaced by a copy of that of other. If it is
   false and the allocators of *this and other do not compare equal, *this cannot take
   ownership of the memory owned by other and must move-assign each element
   individually, allocating additional memory using its own allocator as needed. In any
   case, all elements originally belong to *this are either destroyed or replaced by
   element-wise move-assignment.
   3) Replaces the contents with those identified by initializer list ilist.

.SH Parameters

   other - another container to use as data source
   ilist - initializer list to use as data source

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Complexity

   1) Linear in the size of *this and other.
   2) Linear in the size of *this unless the allocators do not compare equal and do not
   propagate, in which case linear in the size of *this and other.
   3) O(NlogN) in general, where N is size() + ilist.size(). Linear if ilist is sorted
   with respect to value_comp().

.SH Exceptions

   May throw implementation-defined exceptions.                      \fI(until C++17)\fP
   1,3) May throw implementation-defined exceptions.
   2)
   noexcept specification:                                           \fI(since C++17)\fP
   noexcept(std::allocator_traits<Allocator>::is_always_equal::value
   && std::is_nothrow_move_assignable<Compare>::value)

.SH Notes

   After container move assignment (overload \fB(2)\fP), unless element-wise move assignment
   is forced by incompatible allocators, references, pointers, and iterators (other
   than the end iterator) to other remain valid, but refer to elements that are now in
   *this. The current standard makes this guarantee via the blanket statement in
   [container.requirements.general]/12, and a more direct guarantee is under
   consideration via LWG 2321.

.SH Example

   The following code uses operator= to assign one std::map to another:


// Run this code

 #include <map>
 #include <iostream>

 void display_sizes(const std::map<int, int> &nums1,
                    const std::map<int, int> &nums2,
                    const std::map<int, int> &nums3)
 {
     std::cout << "nums1: " << nums1.size()
               << " nums2: " << nums2.size()
               << " nums3: " << nums3.size() << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::map<int, int> nums1 {{3, 1}, {4, 1}, {5, 9},
                               {6, 1}, {7, 1}, {8, 9}};
     std::map<int, int> nums2;
     std::map<int, int> nums3;

     std::cout << "Initially:\\n";
     display_sizes(nums1, nums2, nums3);

     // copy assignment copies data from nums1 to nums2
     nums2 = nums1;

     std::cout << "After assigment:\\n";
     display_sizes(nums1, nums2, nums3);

     // move assignment moves data from nums1 to nums3,
     // modifying both nums1 and nums3
     nums3 = std::move(nums1);

     std::cout << "After move assigment:\\n";
     display_sizes(nums1, nums2, nums3);
 }

.SH Output:

 Initially:
 nums1: 6 nums2: 0 nums3: 0
 After assigment:
 nums1: 6 nums2: 6 nums3: 0
 After move assigment:
 nums1: 0 nums2: 6 nums3: 6

.SH See also

   constructor   constructs the map
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
