.TH std::indirectly_movable_storable 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::indirectly_movable_storable \- std::indirectly_movable_storable

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <iterator>
   template<class In, class Out>

   concept indirectly_movable_storable =
   std::indirectly_movable<In, Out> &&
   std::indirectly_writable<Out, std::iter_value_t<In>> &&
   std::movable<std::iter_value_t<In>> &&                                 \fI(since C++20)\fP
   std::constructible_from<std::iter_value_t<In>,
   std::iter_rvalue_reference_t<In>> &&

   std::assignable_from<std::iter_value_t<In>&,
   std::iter_rvalue_reference_t<In>>;

   The indirectly_movable_storable concept specifies the relationship between an
   indirectly_readable type and an indirectly_writable type. In addition to
   indirectly_movable, this concept specifies that the move from the
   indirectly_readable type can be performed via an intermediate object.

  Semantic requirements

   In and Out model std::indirectly_movable_storable<In, Out> only if given a
   dereferenceable value i of type In:

     * After the definition std::iter_value_t<In> obj(ranges::iter_move(i));, obj is
       equal to the value previously denoted by *i, and
     * if std::iter_rvalue_reference_t<In> is an rvalue reference type, *i is placed in
       a valid but unspecified state after the initialization of obj.

  Equality preservation

   An expression is equality preserving if it results in equal outputs given equal
   inputs.

     * The inputs to an expression consist of its operands.
     * The outputs of an expression consist of its result and all operands modified by
       the expression (if any).

   In specification of standard concepts, operands are defined as the largest
   subexpressions that include only:

     * an id-expression, and
     * invocations of std::move, std::forward, and std::declval.

   The cv-qualification and value category of each operand is determined by assuming
   that each template type parameter denotes a cv-unqualified complete non-array object
   type.

   Every expression required to be equality preserving is further required to be
   stable: two evaluations of such an expression with the same input objects must have
   equal outputs absent any explicit intervening modification of those input objects.

   Unless noted otherwise, every expression used in a requires-expression is required
   to be equality preserving and stable, and the evaluation of the expression may only
   modify its non-constant operands. Operands that are constant must not be modified.

.SH See also

   indirectly_movable           specifies that values may be moved from an
   (C++20)                      indirectly_readable type to an indirectly_writable type
                                (concept)
                                specifies that values may be copied from an
   indirectly_copyable_storable indirectly_readable type to an indirectly_writable type
   (C++20)                      and that the copy may be performed via an intermediate
                                object
                                (concept)
