.TH std::regex_iterator::operator++,operator++(int) 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::regex_iterator::operator++,operator++(int) \- std::regex_iterator::operator++,operator++(int)

.SH Synopsis
   regex_iterator& operator++();      \fI(since C++11)\fP
   regex_iterator operator++( int );  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Advances the iterator on the next match.

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: explain better

   At first, a local variable of type BidirIt is constructed with the value of
   match[0].second.

   If the iterator holds a zero-length match and start == end, *this is set to
   end-of-sequence iterator and the function returns.

   Otherwise, if the iterator holds a zero-length match the operator invokes the
   following:

   regex_search(start, end, match, *pregex,
                flags | regex_constants::match_not_null |
                        regex_constants::match_continuous);

   If the call returns true, the function returns.

   Otherwise the operator increments start and continues as if the most recent match
   was not a zero-length match.

   If the most recent match was not a zero-length match, the operator sets flags to
   flags | regex_constants::match_prev_avail and invokes the following:

   regex_search(start, end, match, *pregex, flags);

   If the call returns false, the iterator sets *this to the end-of-sequence iterator,
   the function returns.

   In all cases in which the call to regex_search returns true, match.prefix().first
   will be equal to the previous value of match[0].second and for each index i in the
   range [0, match.size()) for which match[i].matched is true, match[i].position() will
   return distance(begin, match[i].first).

   This means that match[i].position() gives the offset from the beginning of the
   target sequence, which is often not the same as the offset from the sequence passed
   in the call to regex_search.

   It is unspecified how the implementation makes these adjustments. This means that a
   compiler may call an implementation-specific search function, in which case a
   user-defined specialization of regex_search will not be called.

   The behavior is undefined if the iterator is end-of-sequence iterator.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   1) *this
   2) The previous value of the iterator.
.SH Category:
     * Todo with reason
