.TH std::multimap::swap 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::multimap::swap \- std::multimap::swap

.SH Synopsis
   void swap( multimap& other );                            \fI(until C++17)\fP
   void swap( multimap& other ) noexcept(/* see below */);  \fI(since C++17)\fP

   Exchanges the contents of the container with those of other. Does not invoke any
   move, copy, or swap operations on individual elements.

   All iterators and references remain valid. The past-the-end iterator is invalidated.

   The Compare objects must be Swappable, and they are exchanged using unqualified call
   to non-member swap.

   If std::allocator_traits<allocator_type>::propagate_on_container_swap::value
   is true, then the allocators are exchanged using an unqualified call to       (since
   non-member swap. Otherwise, they are not swapped (and if get_allocator() !=   C++11)
   other.get_allocator(), the behavior is undefined).

.SH Parameters

   other - container to exchange the contents with

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   Any exception thrown by the swap of the Compare objects.          \fI(until C++17)\fP
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(std::allocator_traits<Allocator>::is_always_equal::value \fI(since C++17)\fP
   && std::is_nothrow_swappable<Compare>::value)

.SH Complexity

   Constant.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <utility>
 #include <map>

 // print out a std::pair
 template <class Os, class U, class V>
 Os& operator<<(Os& os, const std::pair<U, V>& p) {
     return os << p.first << ":" << p.second;
 }

 // print out a container
 template <class Os, class Co>
 Os& operator<<(Os& os, const Co& co) {
     os << "{";
     for (auto const& i : co) { os << ' ' << i; }
     return os << " }\\n";
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::multimap<std::string, std::string>
         m1 { {"γ", "gamma"}, {"β", "beta"}, {"α", "alpha"}, {"γ", "gamma"}, },
         m2 { {"ε", "epsilon"}, {"δ", "delta"}, {"ε", "epsilon"} };

     const auto& ref = *(m1.begin());
     const auto iter = std::next(m1.cbegin());

     std::cout << "──────── before swap ────────\\n"
               << "m1: " << m1 << "m2: " << m2 << "ref: " << ref
               << "\\niter: " << *iter << '\\n';

     m1.swap(m2);

     std::cout << "──────── after swap ────────\\n"
               << "m1: " << m1 << "m2: " << m2 << "ref: " << ref
               << "\\niter: " << *iter << '\\n';

     // Note that every iterator referring to an element in one container before
     // the swap refers to the same element in the other container after the swap.
     // Same is true for references.
 }

.SH Output:

 ──────── before swap ────────
 m1: { α:alpha β:beta γ:gamma γ:gamma }
 m2: { δ:delta ε:epsilon ε:epsilon }
 ref: α:alpha
 iter: β:beta
 ──────── after swap ────────
 m1: { δ:delta ε:epsilon ε:epsilon }
 m2: { α:alpha β:beta γ:gamma γ:gamma }
 ref: α:alpha
 iter: β:beta

.SH See also

   std::swap(std::multimap) specializes the std::swap algorithm
                            \fI(function template)\fP
