.TH std::destroy 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::destroy \- std::destroy

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <memory>
   template< class ForwardIt >                                            \fI(since C++17)\fP
   void destroy( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last );                       \fI(until C++20)\fP
   template< class ForwardIt >                                            \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr void destroy( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last );     \fB(1)\fP
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class ForwardIt >
   void destroy( ExecutionPolicy&& policy, ForwardIt first,           \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   ForwardIt last );

   1) Destroys the objects in the range [first, last), as if by

 for (; first != last; ++first)
   std::destroy_at(std::addressof(*first));

   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but executed according to policy. This overload does not participate
   in overload resolution unless
   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>>
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::remove_cvref_t<ExecutionPolicy>>
   \fI(since C++20)\fP is true.

.SH Parameters

   first, last          -         the range of elements to destroy
   policy               -         the execution policy to use. See execution policy for
                                  details.
.SH Type requirements
   -
   ForwardIt must meet the requirements of LegacyForwardIterator.
   -
   No increment, assignment, comparison, or indirection through valid instances of
   ForwardIt may throw exceptions.

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Complexity

   Linear in the distance between first and last.

.SH Exceptions

   The overload with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy reports errors as
   follows:

     * If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception
       and ExecutionPolicy is one of the standard policies, std::terminate is called.
       For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.
     * If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

.SH Possible implementation

   template< class ForwardIt >
   constexpr // since C++20
   void destroy( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last )
   {
     for (; first != last; ++first)
       std::destroy_at(std::addressof(*first));
   }

.SH Example

   The following example demonstrates how to use destroy to destroy a contiguous
   sequence of elements.


// Run this code

 #include <memory>
 #include <new>
 #include <iostream>

 struct Tracer {
     int value;
     ~Tracer() { std::cout << value << " destructed\\n"; }
 };

 int main()
 {
     alignas(Tracer) unsigned char buffer[sizeof(Tracer) * 8];

     for (int i = 0; i < 8; ++i)
         new(buffer + sizeof(Tracer) * i) Tracer{i}; //manually construct objects

     auto ptr = std::launder(reinterpret_cast<Tracer*>(buffer));

     std::destroy(ptr, ptr + 8);
 }

.SH Output:

 0 destructed
 1 destructed
 2 destructed
 3 destructed
 4 destructed
 5 destructed
 6 destructed
 7 destructed

.SH See also

   destroy_n       destroys a number of objects in a range
   \fI(C++17)\fP         \fI(function template)\fP
   destroy_at      destroys an object at a given address
   \fI(C++17)\fP         \fI(function template)\fP
   ranges::destroy destroys a range of objects
   (C++20)         (niebloid)
