.TH std::basic_ios<CharT,Traits>::tie 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_ios<CharT,Traits>::tie \- std::basic_ios<CharT,Traits>::tie

.SH Synopsis
   std::basic_ostream<CharT,Traits>* tie() const;                                  \fB(1)\fP
   std::basic_ostream<CharT,Traits>* tie( std::basic_ostream<CharT,Traits>* str ); \fB(2)\fP

   Manages the tied stream. A tied stream is an output stream which is synchronized
   with the sequence controlled by the stream buffer (rdbuf()), that is, flush() is
   called on the tied stream before any input/output operation on *this.

   1) Returns the current tied stream. If there is no tied stream, a null pointer is
   returned.
   2) Sets the current tied stream to str. Returns the tied stream before the
   operation. If there is no tied stream, a null pointer is returned.

.SH Parameters

   str - an output stream to set as the tied stream

.SH Return value

   The tied stream, or a null pointer if there was no tied stream.

.SH Exceptions

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Notes

   By default, the standard streams cin and cerr are tied to cout. Similarly, their
   wide counterparts wcin and wcerr are tied to wcout.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <fstream>
 #include <string>

 int main()
 {
     std::ofstream os("test.txt");
     std::ifstream is("test.txt");
     std::string value("0");

     os << "Hello";
     is >> value;

     std::cout << "Result before tie(): \\"" << value << "\\"\\n";
     is.clear();
     is.tie(&os);

     is >> value;

     std::cout << "Result after tie(): \\"" << value << "\\"\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 Result before tie(): "0"
 Result after tie(): "Hello"
