.TH std::multiset::equal_range 3 "Apr 19 2014" "1.0.0" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   std::pair<iterator,iterator> equal_range( const Key& key );        \fB(1)\fP
   std::pair<const_iterator,const_iterator> equal_range( const Key&   \fB(2)\fP
   key ) const;
   template< class K >                                                \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++14)\fP
   std::pair<iterator,iterator> equal_range( const K& x );
   template< class K >
   std::pair<const_iterator,const_iterator> equal_range( const K& x ) \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++14)\fP
   const;

   Returns a range containing all elements with the given key in the container. The
   range is defined by two iterators, one pointing to the first element that is not
   less than key and another pointing to the first element greater than key. The first
   iterator may be alternatively obtained with lower_bound(), the second - with
   upper_bound().

   1-2) Compares the keys to key.
   3,4) Compares the keys to the value x. These templates only participate in overload
   resolution if the type Compare::is_transparent exists. They allow calling this
   function without constructing an instance of Key.

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: explain better

.SH Contents

     • 1 Parameters
     • 2 Return value
     • 3 Complexity
     • 4 Example
     • 5 See also

.SH Parameters

   key - key value to compare the elements to
   x   - alternative value that can be compared to Key

.SH Return value

   std::pair containing a pair of iterators defining the wanted range: the first
   pointing to the first element that is not less than key and the second pointing to
   the first element greater than key.

   If there are no elements not less than key, past-the-end (see end()) iterator is
   returned as the first element. Similarly if there are no elements greater than key,
   past-the-end iterator is returned as the second element.

   Since insert always inserts at the upper bound, the order of           \fI(since C++11)\fP
   equivalent elements is the equal range is the order of insertion.

.SH Complexity

   Logarithmic in the size of the container.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   find        finds element with specific key
               \fI(public member function)\fP
   upper_bound returns an iterator to the first element greater than a certain value
               \fI(public member function)\fP
   lower_bound returns an iterator to the first element not less than the given value
               \fI(public member function)\fP

   Categories:

     • Todo with reason
     • Todo no example
