.TH std::basic_ios::tie 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_ios::tie \- std::basic_ios::tie

.SH Synopsis
   std::basic_ostream<CharT,Traits>* tie() const;                                  \fB(1)\fP
   std::basic_ostream<CharT,Traits>* tie( std::basic_ostream<CharT,Traits>* str ); \fB(2)\fP

   Manages the tied stream. A tied stream is an output stream which is synchronized
   with the sequence controlled by the stream buffer (rdbuf()), that is, flush() is
   called on the tied stream before any input/output operation on *this.

   1) Returns the current tied stream. If there is no tied stream, a null pointer is
   returned.
   2) Sets the current tied stream to str. Returns the tied stream before the
   operation. If there is no tied stream, a null pointer is returned.

.SH Parameters

   str - an output stream to set as the tied stream

.SH Return value

   The tied stream, or a null pointer if there was no tied stream.

.SH Exceptions

   May throw implementation-defined exceptions.

.SH Notes

   By default, the standard stream cout is tied to cin and cerr. Similarly, its wide
   counterpart wcout is tied to wcin and wcerr.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <fstream>
 #include <string>

 int main()
 {
     std::ofstream os("test.txt");
     std::ifstream is("test.txt");
     std::string value("0");

     os << "Hello";
     is >> value;

     std::cout << "Result before tie(): \\"" << value << "\\"\\n";
     is.clear();
     is.tie(&os);

     is >> value;

     std::cout << "Result after tie(): \\"" << value << "\\"\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 Result before tie(): "0"
 Result after tie(): "Hello"
