.TH std::exit 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::exit \- std::exit

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdlib>
   void exit( int exit_code );               \fI(until C++11)\fP
   [[noreturn]] void exit( int exit_code );  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Causes normal program termination to occur.

   Several cleanup steps are performed:

   1) Objects with static storage duration are destroyed and functions
   registered by calling std::atexit are called:
   a) Non-local objects with static storage duration are destroyed in the
   reverse order of the completion of their constructor.
   b) Functions registered with std::atexit are called in the reverse
   order of their registration, except that a function is called after
   any previously registered functions that had already been called at
   the time it was registered.
   c) For each function f registered with std::atexit and each non-local
   object obj of static storage duration,                                 \fI(until C++11)\fP

     * if f is registered before the initialization of obj, f will only
       be called after the destruction of obj;
     * if f is registered after the initialization of obj, f will only be
       called before the destruction of obj.
   d) For each local object obj with static storage duration, obj is
   destroyed as if a function calling the destructor of obj were
   registered with std::atexit at the completion of the constructor of
   obj.
   1) The destructors of objects with thread local storage duration that
   are associated with the current thread, the destructors of objects
   with static storage duration, and the functions registered with
   std::atexit are executed concurrently, while maintaining the following
   guarantees:
   a) The last destructor for thread-local objects is sequenced-before
   the first destructor for a static object.
   b) If the completion of the constructor or dynamic initialization for
   thread-local or static object A was sequenced-before thread-local or
   static object B, the completion of the destruction of B is
   sequenced-before the start of the destruction of A.                    \fI(since C++11)\fP
   c) If the completion of the initialization of a static object A was
   sequenced-before the call to std::atexit for some function F, the call
   to F during termination is sequenced-before the start of the
   destruction of A.
   d) If the call to std::atexit for some function F was sequenced-before
   the completion of initialization of a static object A, the start of
   the destruction of A is sequenced-before the call to F during
   termination.
   e) If a call to std::atexit for some function F1 was sequenced-before
   the call to std::atexit for some function F2, then the call to F2
   during termination is sequenced-before the call to F1.

     * In the above,

     * If any function registered with atexit or any destructor of static/thread-local
       object throws an exception, std::terminate is called.
     * If the compiler opted to lift dynamic initialization of an object to the static
       initialization phase of non-local initialization, the sequencing of destruction
       honors its would-be dynamic initialization.
     * If a function-local (block-scope) static object was destroyed and then that
       function is called from the destructor of another static object and the control
       flow passes through the definition of that object (or if it is used indirectly,
       via pointer or reference), the behavior is undefined.
     * If a function-local (block-scope) static object was initialized during
       construction of a subobject of a class or array, it is only destroyed after all
       subobjects of that class or all elements of that array were destroyed.
   2) All C streams are flushed and closed.
   3) Files created by std::tmpfile are removed.
   4) Control is returned to the host environment. If exit_code is 0 or EXIT_SUCCESS,
   an implementation-defined status indicating successful termination is returned. If
   exit_code is EXIT_FAILURE, an implementation-defined status indicating unsuccessful
   termination is returned. In other cases implementation-defined status value is
   returned.

   Stack is not unwound: destructors of variables with automatic storage duration are
   not called.

.SH Relationship with the main function

   Returning from the main function, either by a return statement or by reaching the
   end of the function performs the normal function termination (calls the destructors
   of the variables with automatic storage durations) and then executes std::exit,
   passing the argument of the return statement (or 0 if implicit return was used) as
   exit_code.

.SH Parameters

   exit_code - exit status of the program

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cstdlib>
 #include <iostream>

 struct Static
 {
     ~Static()
     {
         std::cout << "Static destructor\\n";
     }
 };

 struct Local
 {
     ~Local()
     {
         std::cout << "Local destructor\\n";
     }
 };

 Static static_variable; // Destructor of this object *will* be called

 void atexit_handler()
 {
     std::cout << "atexit handler\\n";
 }

 int main()
 {
     Local local_variable; // Destructor of this object will *not* be called
     const int result = std::atexit(atexit_handler); // Handler will be called

     if (result != 0)
     {
         std::cerr << "atexit registration failed\\n";
         return EXIT_FAILURE;
     }

     std::cout << "test\\n";
     std::exit(EXIT_FAILURE);

     std::cout << "this line will *not* be executed\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 test
 atexit handler
 Static destructor

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

    DR   Applied to               Behavior as published                Correct behavior
                    during cleanup, the behavior was unclear when \fB(1)\fP
   LWG 3 C++98      a function is                                      made clear
                    registered with std::atexit or \fB(2)\fP a static local
                    object is initialized

.SH See also

   abort         causes abnormal program termination (without cleaning up)
                 \fI(function)\fP
   atexit        registers a function to be called on std::exit() invocation
                 \fI(function)\fP
   quick_exit    causes quick program termination without completely cleaning up
   \fI(C++11)\fP       \fI(function)\fP
   at_quick_exit registers a function to be called on std::quick_exit invocation
   \fI(C++11)\fP       \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   exit
