.TH std::experimental::unique_resource::reset 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::unique_resource::reset \- std::experimental::unique_resource::reset

.SH Synopsis
   void reset() noexcept; \fB(1)\fP (library fundamentals TS v3)
   template< class RR >   \fB(2)\fP (library fundamentals TS v3)
   void reset( RR&& r );

   1) Disposes the resource by calling the deleter with the underlying resource handle
   if the unique_resource owns it. The unique_resource does not own the resource after
   the call.
   2) Replaces the resource by calling \fB(1)\fP and then assigns the stored resource handle
   with std::forward<RR>(r) if std::is_nothrow_assignable_v<RS, RR> is true, otherwise
   std::as_const(r), where RS is the type of stored resource handle. The
   unique_resource owns the resource after the call.
   If copy-assignment of the store resource handle throws an exception, calls del_(r),
   where del is the deleter object.
   This overload participates in overload resolution only if the selected assignment
   expression assigning the stored resource handle is well-formed.
   The program is ill-formed if del_(r) is ill-formed.
   The behavior is undefined if del_(r) results in undefined behavior or throws an
   exception.

.SH Parameters

   r - resource handle for a new resource to manage

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   2) Any exception thrown in assigning the stored resource handle.

.SH Notes

   The mechanism ensures no leaking of resources.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   reset replaces the managed object
         \fI(public member function of std::unique_ptr<T,Deleter>)\fP

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
