.TH std::variant<Types...>::operator= 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::variant<Types...>::operator= \- std::variant<Types...>::operator=

.SH Synopsis
   constexpr variant& operator=(const variant& rhs);                  \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   constexpr variant& operator=(variant&& rhs) noexcept(/* see below  \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   */);
   template <class T> variant& operator=(T&& t) noexcept(/* see below \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   */);

   Assigns a new value to an existing variant object.

   1) Copy-assignment:

     * If both *this and rhs are valueless by exception, does nothing.
     * Otherwise, if rhs is valueless, but *this is not, destroys the value contained
       in *this and makes it valueless.
     * Otherwise, if rhs holds the same alternative as *this, assigns the value
       contained in rhs to the value contained in *this. If an exception is thrown,
       *this does not become valueless: the value depends on the exception safety
       guarantee of the alternative's copy assignment.
     * Otherwise, if the alternative held by rhs is either nothrow copy constructible
       or not nothrow move constructible (as determined by
       std::is_nothrow_copy_constructible and std::is_nothrow_move_constructible,
       respectively), equivalent to this->emplace<rhs.index()>(get<rhs.index()>(rhs)).
     * Otherwise, equivalent to this->operator=(variant(rhs)). Note that *this may
       become valueless_by_exception as described in \fB(2)\fP.

   This overload is defined as deleted unless std::is_copy_constructible_v<T_i> and
   std::is_copy_assignable_v<T_i> are both true for all T_i in Types.... This overload
   is trivial if
   std::is_trivially_copy_constructible_v<T_i>,std::is_trivially_copy_assignable_v<T_i>
   and std::is_trivially_destructible_v<T_i> are all true for all T_i in Types....
   2) Move-assignment:

     * If both *this and rhs are valueless by exception, does nothing
     * Otherwise, if rhs is valueless, but *this is not, destroys the value contained
       in *this and makes it valueless
     * Otherwise, if rhs holds the same alternative as *this, assigns
       std::get<j>(std::move(rhs)) to the value contained in *this, with j being
       index(). If an exception is thrown, *this does not become valueless: the value
       depends on the exception safety guarantee of the alternative's move assignment.
     * Otherwise (if rhs and *this hold different alternatives), equivalent to
       this->emplace<rhs.index()>(get<rhs.index()>(std::move(rhs))). If an exception is
       thrown by T_i's move constructor, *this becomes valueless_by_exception.

   This overload only participates in overload resolution if
   std::is_move_constructible_v<T_i> and std::is_move_assignable_v<T_i> are both true
   for all T_i in Types.... This overload is trivial if
   std::is_trivially_move_constructible_v<T_i>,
   std::is_trivially_move_assignable_v<T_i>, and std::is_trivially_destructible_v<T_i>
   are all true for all T_i in Types....
   3) Converting assignment.

     * Determines the alternative type T_j that would be selected by overload
       resolution for the expression F(std::forward<T>(t)) if there was an overload of
       imaginary function F(T_i) for every T_i from Types... in scope at the same time,
       except that:

     * An overload F(T_i) is only considered if the declaration T_i x[] = {
       std::forward<T>(t) }; is valid for some invented variable x;
     * If T_i is (possibly cv-qualified) bool, F(T_i) is only considered if
       std:remove_cvref_t<T> is also bool.

     * If *this already holds a T_j, assigns std::forward<T>(t) to the value contained
       in *this. If an exception is thrown, *this does not become valueless: the value
       depends on the exception safety guarantee of the assignment called.
     * Otherwise, if std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<T_j, T> ||
       !std::is_nothrow_move_constructible_v<T_j> is true, equivalent to
       this->emplace<j>(std::forward<T>(t));
     * Otherwise, equivalent to this->operator=(variant(std::forward<T>(t))).

   This overload only participates in overload resolution if
   std::decay_t<T>
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::remove_cvref_t<T>
   \fI(since C++20)\fP is not the same type as variant and std::is_assignable_v<T_j&, T> is
   true and std::is_constructible_v<T_j, T> is true and the expression
   F(std::forward<T>(t)) (with F being the above-mentioned set of imaginary functions)
   is well formed.

 std::variant<string> v1;
 v1 = "abc"; // OK
 std::variant<std::string, std::string> v2;
 v2 = "abc"; // Error
 std::variant <std::string, bool> v3;
 v3 = "abc"; // OK, chooses string; bool is not a candidate
 std::variant<float, long, double> v4; //holds float
 v4 = 0; // OK, holds long; float and double are not candidates

.SH Parameters

   rhs - another variant
   t   - a value convertible to one of the variant's alternatives

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Exceptions

   1) May throw any exception thrown by assignment and copy/move initialization of any
   alternative
   2)
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(((std::is_nothrow_move_constructible_v<Types> &&
   std::is_nothrow_move_assignable_v<Types>) && ...))
   3)
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(std::is_nothrow_assignable_v<T_j&, T> &&
   std::is_nothrow_constructible_v<T_j, T>)

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to         Behavior as published              Correct behavior
                       copy assignment operator doesn't
   LWG 3024 C++17      participate in overload resolution if defined as deleted instead
                       any member type is not copyable
                       copy/move assignment may not be       required to propagate
   P0602R4  C++17      trivial even if underlying operations triviality
                       are trivial
                       converting assignment blindly         narrowing and boolean
   P0608R3  C++17      assembles an overload set, leading to conversions not considered
                       unintended conversions

.SH See also

   emplace constructs a value in the variant, in place
           \fI(public member function)\fP
