.TH std::allocate_shared,std::allocate_shared_for_overwrite 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::allocate_shared,std::allocate_shared_for_overwrite \- std::allocate_shared,std::allocate_shared_for_overwrite

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <memory>
   template< class T, class Alloc, class... Args >                     \fI(since C++11)\fP
   shared_ptr<T> allocate_shared( const Alloc& alloc, Args&&...    \fB(1)\fP (T is non-array)
   args );
   template< class T, class Alloc >                                    \fI(since C++20)\fP
   shared_ptr<T> allocate_shared( const Alloc& alloc, std::size_t  \fB(2)\fP (T is U[])
   N );
   template< class T, class Alloc >                                \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   shared_ptr<T> allocate_shared( const Alloc& alloc );                (T is U[N])
   template< class T, class Alloc >

   shared_ptr<T> allocate_shared( const Alloc& alloc, std::size_t      \fI(since C++20)\fP
   N,                                                              \fB(4)\fP (T is U[])

                                  const std::remove_extent_t<T>& u
   );
   template< class T, class Alloc >

   shared_ptr<T> allocate_shared( const Alloc& alloc,              \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
                                                                       (T is U[N])
                                  const std::remove_extent_t<T>& u
   );
   template< class T, class Alloc >                                    \fI(since C++20)\fP
   shared_ptr<T> allocate_shared_for_overwrite( const Alloc& alloc \fB(6)\fP (T is not U[])
   );
   template< class T, class Alloc >                                    \fI(since C++20)\fP
   shared_ptr<T> allocate_shared_for_overwrite( const Alloc&       \fB(7)\fP (T is U[])
   alloc, std::size_t N );

   1) Constructs an object of type T and wraps it in a std::shared_ptr using args as
   the parameter list for the constructor of T. The object is constructed as if by the
   expression
   ::new (pv) T(v)
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::allocator_traits<A2>::construct(a, pv, v)
   \fI(since C++20)\fP, where pv is an internal void* pointer to storage suitable to hold an
   object of type T and a is a copy of the allocator rebound to std::remove_cv_t<T>.
   The storage is typically larger than sizeof(T) in order to use one allocation for
   both the control block of the shared pointer and the T object. The std::shared_ptr
   constructor called by this function enables shared_from_this with a pointer to the
   newly constructed object of type T. All memory allocation is done using a copy of
   alloc, which must satisfy the Allocator requirements. This overload only
   participates in overload resolution if T is not an array type
   2,3) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but the object constructed is a possibly-multidimensional array
   whose every non-array element is initialized as if by the expression
   std::allocator_traits<A2>::construct(a2, pv) where a2 of type A2 is the copy of the
   allocator rebound to manage objects of type
   std::remove_cv_t<std::remove_all_extents_t<T>>. The overload \fB(2)\fP creates an array of
   size N along its first dimension. The array elements are initialized in ascending
   order of their addresses, and when their lifetime ends are destroyed in the reverse
   order of their original construction.
   4,5) Same as (2,3), but the elements of the array are initialized from the default
   value u. If std::remove_extent_t<T> is not itself an array type, then this is
   performed as if by the same allocator expression as in \fB(1)\fP, except that the
   allocator is rebound to the std::remove_cv_t<std::remove_all_extents_t<T>>.
   Otherwise, this is performed as if by initializing every non-array element of the
   (possibly multidimensional) array with the corresponding element from u using the
   same allocator expression as in \fB(1)\fP, except that the allocator is rebound to the
   type std::remove_cv_t<std::remove_all_extents_t<T>>. The overload \fB(4)\fP creates an
   array of size N along the first dimension. The array elements are initialized in
   ascending order of their addresses, and when their lifetime ends are destroyed in
   the reverse order of their original construction.
   6) Same as \fB(1)\fP if T is not an array type and \fB(3)\fP if T is U[N], except that the
   created object is default-initialized.
   7) Same as \fB(2)\fP, except that the individual array elements are default-initialized.

   For allocate_shared, the object
   (or the individual array elements for (2-5))
   \fI(since C++20)\fP are destroyed via the expression std::allocator_traits<A2>::destroy(a,
   p), where p is a pointer to the object and a is a copy of the allocator passed to
   allocate_shared, rebound to the type of the object being destroyed.

   For allocate_shared_for_overwrite, the object (or individual elements
   if T is an array type) will be destroyed by p->~X(), where p is a      \fI(since C++20)\fP
   pointer to the object and X is its type.

.SH Parameters

   alloc   - The Allocator to use.
   args... - list of arguments with which an instance of T will be constructed.
   N       - array size to use
   u       - the initial value to initialize every element of the array

.SH Return value

   std::shared_ptr of an instance of type T.

.SH Exceptions

   Can throw the exceptions thrown from Alloc::allocate() or from the constructor of T.
   If an exception is thrown, \fB(1)\fP has no effect.
   If an exception is thrown during the construction of the array, already-initialized
   elements are destroyed in reverse order
   \fI(since C++20)\fP

.SH Notes

   Like std::make_shared, this function typically performs only one allocation, and
   places both the T object and the control block in the allocated memory block (the
   standard recommends but does not require this, all known implementations do this). A
   copy of alloc is stored as part of the control block so that it can be used to
   deallocate it once both shared and weak reference counts reach zero.

   Unlike the std::shared_ptr constructors, std::allocate_shared does not accept a
   separate custom deleter: the supplied allocator is used for destruction of the
   control block and the T object, and for deallocation of their shared memory block.

   std::shared_ptr supports array types (as of C++17), but
   std::allocate_shared does not. This functionality is supported by      \fI(until C++20)\fP
   boost::allocate_shared

   A constructor enables shared_from_this with a pointer ptr of type U* means that it
   determines if U has an
   unambiguous and accessible
   \fI(since C++17)\fP base class that is a specialization of std::enable_shared_from_this,
   and if so, the constructor evaluates the statement:

 if (ptr != nullptr && ptr->weak_this.expired())
   ptr->weak_this = std::shared_ptr<std::remove_cv_t<U>>(*this,
                                   const_cast<std::remove_cv_t<U>*>(ptr));

   Where weak_this is the hidden mutable std::weak_ptr member of std::shared_from_this.
   The assignment to the weak_this member is not atomic and conflicts with any
   potentially concurrent access to the same object. This ensures that future calls to
   shared_from_this() would share ownership with the shared_ptr created by this raw
   pointer constructor.

   The test ptr->weak_this.expired() in the exposition code above makes sure that
   weak_this is not reassigned if it already indicates an owner. This test is required
   as of C++17.

.SH See also

   constructor               constructs new shared_ptr
                             \fI(public member function)\fP
   make_shared               creates a shared pointer that manages a new object
   make_shared_for_overwrite \fI(function template)\fP
   (C++20)
