.TH std::shared_timed_mutex::try_lock_shared_for 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::shared_timed_mutex::try_lock_shared_for \- std::shared_timed_mutex::try_lock_shared_for

.SH Synopsis
   template< class Rep, class Period >
   bool try_lock_shared_for( const std::chrono::duration<Rep,Period>&     \fI(since C++14)\fP
   timeout_duration );

   Tries to lock the mutex in shared mode. Blocks until specified timeout_duration has
   elapsed or the shared lock is acquired, whichever comes first. On successful lock
   acquisition returns true, otherwise returns false.

   If timeout_duration is less or equal timeout_duration.zero(), the function behaves
   like try_lock_shared().

   A steady clock is used to measure the duration. This function may block for longer
   than timeout_duration due to scheduling or resource contention delays.

   As with try_lock_shared(), this function is allowed to fail spuriously and return
   false even if the mutex was not locked by any other thread at some point during
   timeout_duration.

   Prior unlock() operation on the same mutex synchronizes-with (as defined in
   std::memory_order) this operation if it returns true.

   If try_lock_shared_for is called by a thread that already owns the mutex in any mode
   (shared or exclusive), the behavior is undefined.

.SH Parameters

   timeout_duration - maximum duration to block for

.SH Return value

   true if the lock was acquired successfully, otherwise false.

.SH Exceptions

   Any exception thrown by clock, time_point, or duration during the execution (clocks,
   time points, and durations provided by the standard library never throw)

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

                         tries to lock the mutex for shared ownership, returns if the
   try_lock_shared       mutex is not available
                         \fI(public member function)\fP
                         tries to lock the mutex for shared ownership, returns if the
   try_lock_shared_until mutex has been
                         unavailable until specified time point has been reached
                         \fI(public member function)\fP
                         tries to lock the mutex, returns if the mutex has been
   try_lock_for          unavailable for the specified timeout duration
                         \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
