.TH std::tgamma 3 "Sep  4 2015" "2.0 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float tgamma( float arg );             \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double tgamma( double arg );           \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   long double tgamma( long double arg ); \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double tgamma( Integral arg );         \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   1-3) Computes the gamma function of arg.
   4) A set of overloads or a function template accepting an argument of any integral
   type. Equivalent to 2) (the argument is cast to double).

.SH Parameters

   arg - value of a floating-point or Integral type

.SH Return value

   If no errors occur, the value of the gamma function of arg, that is ∫∞
   0targ-1
   e^-t dt, is returned

   If a domain error occurs, an implementation-defined value (NaN where supported) is
   returned.

   If a pole error occurs, ±HUGE_VAL, ±HUGE_VALF, or ±HUGE_VALL is returned.

   If a range error due to overflow occurs, ±HUGE_VAL, ±HUGE_VALF, or ±HUGE_VALL is
   returned.

   If a range error due to underflow occurs, the correct value (after rounding) is
   returned.

.SH Error handling

   Errors are reported as specified in math_errhandling

   If arg is zero or is an integer less than zero, a pole error or a domain error may
   occur.

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * If the argument is ±0, ±∞ is returned and FE_DIVBYZERO is raised
     * If the argument is a negative integer, NaN is returned and FE_INVALID is raised
     * If the argument is -∞, NaN is returned and FE_INVALID is raised
     * If the argument is +∞, +∞ is returned.
     * If the argument is NaN, NaN is returned

.SH Notes

   If arg is a natural number, std::tgamma(arg) is the factorial of arg-1. Many
   implementations calculate the exact integer-domain factorial if the argument is a
   sufficiently small integer.

   For IEEE-compatible type double, overflow happens if 0 < x < 1/DBL_MAX or if x >
   171.7

   POSIX requires that a pole error occurs if the argument is zero, but a domain error
   occurs when the argument is a negative integer. It also specifies that in future,
   domain errors may be replaced by pole errors for negative integer arguments (in
   which case the return value in those cases would change from NaN to ±∞).

   There is a non-standard function named gamma in various implementations, but its
   definition is inconsistent. For example, glibc and 4.2BSD version of gamma executes
   lgamma, but 4.4BSD version of gamma executes tgamma.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <cerrno>
 #include <cstring>
 #include <cfenv>
 #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS ON
 int main()
 {
     std::cout << "tgamma(10) = " << std::tgamma(10)
               << ", 9! = " << 2*3*4*5*6*7*8*9 << '\\n'
               << "tgamma(0.5) = " << std::tgamma(0.5)
               << ", sqrt(pi) = " << std::sqrt(std::acos(-1)) << '\\n';
     // special values
     std::cout << "tgamma(1) = " << std::tgamma(1) << '\\n'
               << "tgamma(+Inf) = " << std::tgamma(INFINITY) << '\\n';
     // error handling
     errno=0; std::feclearexcept(FE_ALL_EXCEPT);
     std::cout << "tgamma(-1) = " << std::tgamma(-1) << '\\n';
     if(errno == EDOM)
         std::cout << "    errno == EDOM: " << std::strerror(errno) << '\\n';
     if(std::fetestexcept(FE_INVALID))
         std::cout << "    FE_INVALID raised\\n";
 }

.SH Possible output:

 tgamma\fB(10)\fP = 362880, 9! = 362880
 tgamma(0.5) = 1.77245, sqrt(pi) = 1.77245
 tgamma\fB(1)\fP = 1
 tgamma(+Inf) = inf
 tgamma(-1) = nan
     errno == EDOM: Numerical argument out of domain
     FE_INVALID raised

.SH See also

   lgamma  natural logarithm of the gamma function
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   tgamma

.SH External links

   Weisstein, Eric W. "Gamma Function." From MathWorld--A Wolfram Web Resource.
