.TH std::any::any 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::any::any \- std::any::any

.SH Synopsis
   constexpr any() noexcept;                                          \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   any( const any& other );                                           \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   any( any&& other ) noexcept;                                       \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   template< class ValueType >                                        \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   any( ValueType&& value );
   template< class ValueType, class... Args >                         \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   explicit any( std::in_place_type_t<ValueType>, Args&&... args );
   template< class ValueType, class U, class... Args >

   explicit any( std::in_place_type_t<ValueType>,                     \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   std::initializer_list<U> il,

                 Args&&... args );

   Constructs a new any object.

   1) Constructs an empty object.
   2,3) Copies \fB(2)\fP or moves \fB(3)\fP content of other into a new instance, so that any
   content is equivalent in both type and value to those of other prior to the
   constructor call, or empty if other is empty. Formally,
   2) If other is empty, the constructed object is empty. Otherwise, equivalent to
   any(std::in_place_type<T>, std::any_cast<const T&>(other)), where T is the type of
   the object contained in other.
   3) If other is empty, the constructed object is empty. Otherwise, the constructed
   object contains either the object contained in other, or an object of the same type
   constructed from the object contained in other, considering that object as an
.SH rvalue.
   4) Constructs an object with initial content an object of type
   std::decay_t<ValueType>, direct-initialized from std::forward<ValueType>(value).
     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if
       std::decay_t<ValueType> is not the same type as any nor a specialization of
       std::in_place_type_t, and std::is_copy_constructible_v<std::decay_t<ValueType>>
       is true.
   5) Constructs an object with initial content an object of type
   std::decay_t<ValueType>, direct-non-list-initialized from
   std::forward<Args>(args)....
     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if
       std::is_constructible_v<std::decay_t<ValueType>, Args...> and
       std::is_copy_constructible_v<std::decay_t<ValueType>> are both true.
   6) Constructs an object with initial content an object of type
   std::decay_t<ValueType>, direct-non-list-initialized from il,
   std::forward<Args>(args)....
     * This overload participates in overload resolution only if
       std::is_constructible_v<std::decay_t<ValueType>, std::initializer_list<U>&,
       Args...> and std::is_copy_constructible_v<std::decay_t<ValueType>> are both
       true.

.SH Template parameters

   ValueType               -              contained value type
.SH Type requirements
   -
   std::decay_t<ValueType> must meet the requirements of CopyConstructible.

.SH Parameters

   other    - another any object to copy or move from
   value    - value to initialize the contained value with
   il, args - arguments to be passed to the constructor of the contained object

.SH Exceptions

   2,4-6) Throws any exception thrown by the constructor of the contained type.

.SH Notes

   Because the default constructor is constexpr, static std::anys are initialized as
   part of static non-local initialization, before any dynamic non-local initialization
   begins. This makes it safe to use an object of type std::any in a constructor of any
   static object.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <boost/core/demangle.hpp>

 #include <any>
 #include <initializer_list>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <memory>
 #include <set>
 #include <string>
 #include <utility>

 struct A
 {
     int age;
     std::string name;
     double salary;

 #if __cpp_aggregate_paren_init < 201902L
     // Required before C++20 for in-place construction
     A(int age, std::string name, double salary)
         : age(age), name(std::move(name)), salary(salary) {}
 #endif
 };

 // Using abi demangle to print nice type name of instance of any holding
 void printType(const std::any& a)
 {
     std::cout << boost::core::demangle(a.type().name()) << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     // Constructor #4: std::any holding int
     std::any a1{7};

     // Constructor #5: std::any holding A, constructed in place
     std::any a2(std::in_place_type<A>, 30, "Ada", 1000.25);

     // Constructor #6: std::any holding a set of A with custom comparison
     auto lambda = [](auto&& l, auto&& r){ return l.age < r.age; };
     std::any a3(
         std::in_place_type<std::set<A, decltype(lambda)>>,
         {
             A{39, std::string{"Ada"}, 100.25},
             A{20, std::string{"Bob"}, 75.5}
         },
         lambda);

     printType(a1);
     printType(a2);
     printType(a3);
 }

.SH Possible output:

 int
 A
 std::set<A, main::{lambda(auto:1&&, auto:2&&)#1}, std::allocator<A> >

.SH See also

   operator= assigns an any object
             \fI(public member function)\fP
