.TH std::bind_front 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::bind_front \- std::bind_front

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <functional>
   template <class F, class... Args>                               \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr /*unspecified*/ bind_front( F&& f, Args&&... args );

   The function template bind_front generates a forwarding call wrapper for f. Calling
   this wrapper is equivalent to invoking f with its first sizeof...(Args) parameters
   bound to args.

   In other words, std::bind_front(f, bound_args...)(call_args...) is equivalent to
   std::invoke(f, bound_args..., call_args....).

   The program is ill-formed if any of the following is false:

     * std::is_constructible_v<std::decay_t<F>, F>
     * std::is_move_constructible_v<std::decay_t<F>>
     * (std::is_constructible_v<std::decay_t<Args>, Args> && ...)
     * (std::is_move_constructible_v<std::decay_t<Args>> && ...)

.SH Parameters

          Callable object \fI\fI(function\fP object, pointer to function, reference to function,\fP
   f    - pointer to member function, or pointer to data member) that will be bound to
          some arguments
   args - list of the arguments to bind to the first sizeof...(Args) parameters of f
.SH Type requirements
   -
   std::decay_t<F> and each type in std::decay_t<Args>... must meet the requirements of
   MoveConstructible.

.SH Return value

   A function object of type T that is unspecified, except that the types of objects
   returned by two calls to std::bind_front with the same arguments are the same.

   The returned object (call wrapper) has the following properties:

std::bind_front return type

.SH Member objects

   The returned object behaves as if it holds a member object fd of type
   std::decay_t<F> direct-non-list-initialized from std::forward<F>(f), and an
   std::tuple object tup constructed with
   std::tuple<std::decay_t<Args>...>(std::forward<Args>(args)...), except that the
   returned object's assignment behavior is unspecified and the names are for
   exposition only.

    Constructors

   The return type of std::bind_front behaves as if its copy/move constructors perform
   a memberwise copy/move. It is CopyConstructible if all of its member objects
   (specified above) are CopyConstructible, and is MoveConstructible otherwise.

.SH Member function operator()

   Given an object G obtained from an earlier call to bind_front(f, args...), when a
   glvalue g designating G is invoked in a function call expression g(call_args...), an
   invocation of the stored object takes place, as if by

 std::invoke(g.fd, std::get<Ns>(g.tup)..., call_args...)

   , where

     * Ns is an integer pack 0, 1, ..., (sizeof...(Args) - 1)
     * g is an lvalue in the std::invoke expression if it is an lvalue in the call
       expression, and is an rvalue otherwise. Thus std::move(g)(call_args...) can move
       the bound arguments into the call, where g(call_args...) would copy.

   The behavior is undefined if g has volatile-qualified type.

   The member operator() is noexcept if the std::invoke expression it calls is noexcept
   (in other words, it preserves the exception specification of the underlying call
   operator).

.SH Exceptions

   Only throws if construction of stored function object or any of the bound arguments
   throws.

.SH Notes

   This function is intended to replace std::bind. Unlike std::bind, it does not
   support arbitrary argument rearrangement and has no special treatment for nested
   bind-expressions or std::reference_wrappers. On the other hand, it pays attention to
   the value category of the call wrapper object and propagates exception specification
   of the underlying call operator.

   As described in std::invoke, when invoking a pointer to non-static member function
   or pointer to non-static data member, the first argument has to be a reference or
   pointer (including, possibly, smart pointer such as std::shared_ptr and
   std::unique_ptr) to an object whose member will be accessed.

   The arguments to std::bind_front are copied or moved, and are never passed by
   reference unless wrapped in std::ref or std::cref.

   Feature testing macro: __cpp_lib_bind_front

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <functional>
 #include <iostream>

 int minus(int a, int b){
     return a-b;
 }

 struct S
 {
   int val;
   int minus(int arg) const noexcept { return val - arg; }
 };

 int main()
 {
     auto fifty_minus = std::bind_front(minus, 50);
     std::cout << fifty_minus (3) << '\\n';

     auto member_minus = std::bind_front(&S::minus, S{50});


     std::cout << member_minus (3) << '\\n';

     // noexcept-specification is preserved!
     static_assert(! noexcept(fifty_minus (3)));
     static_assert(noexcept(member_minus (3)));

     // binding of a lambda
     auto plus = [](int a, int b) { return a+b; };
     auto forty_plus = std::bind_front(plus, 40);
     std::cout << forty_plus(7) << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 47
 47
 47

.SH See also

   bind    binds one or more arguments to a function object
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function template)\fP
   mem_fn  creates a function object out of a pointer to a member
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function template)\fP
