.TH std::experimental::atomic_shared_ptr::compare_exchange_strong, 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::atomic_shared_ptr::compare_exchange_strong, \- std::experimental::atomic_shared_ptr::compare_exchange_strong,

.SH Synopsis

   bool compare_exchange_weak( std::shared_ptr<T>& expected, const
   std::shared_ptr<T>& desired,                                                    \fB(1)\fP
   std::memory_order success, std::memory_order failure ) noexcept;
   bool compare_exchange_weak( std::shared_ptr<T>& expected, std::shared_ptr<T>&&
   desired,                                                                        \fB(2)\fP
   std::memory_order success, std::memory_order failure ) noexcept;
   bool compare_exchange_weak( std::shared_ptr<T>& expected, const
   std::shared_ptr<T>& desired,                                                    \fB(3)\fP
   std::memory_order order = std::memory_order_seq_cst ) noexcept;
   bool compare_exchange_weak( std::shared_ptr<T>& expected, std::shared_ptr<T>&&
   desired,                                                                        \fB(4)\fP
   std::memory_order order = std::memory_order_seq_cst ) noexcept;
   bool compare_exchange_strong( std::shared_ptr<T>& expected, const
   std::shared_ptr<T>& desired,                                                    \fB(5)\fP
   std::memory_order success, std::memory_order failure ) noexcept;
   bool compare_exchange_strong( std::shared_ptr<T>& expected,
   std::shared_ptr<T>&& desired,                                                   \fB(6)\fP
   std::memory_order success, std::memory_order failure ) noexcept;
   bool compare_exchange_strong( std::shared_ptr<T>& expected, const
   std::shared_ptr<T>& desired,                                                    \fB(7)\fP
   std::memory_order order = std::memory_order_seq_cst ) noexcept;
   bool compare_exchange_strong( std::shared_ptr<T>& expected,
   std::shared_ptr<T>&& desired,                                                   \fB(8)\fP
   std::memory_order order = std::memory_order_seq_cst ) noexcept;

   Atomically compares the underlying shared_ptr in *this with expected, and if they
   are equivalent, replaces the former with desired (performs read-modify-write
   operation). Otherwise, loads the actual value stored in *this into expected
   (performs load operation). The replacement is performed as if by the copy or move
   assignment operator of shared_ptr, as appropriate.

   Two shared_ptrs are equivalent if and only if they store the same pointer value and
   share ownership.

   The memory models for the read-modify-write and load operations are success and
   failure respectively. For overloads (3-4, 7-8), order is used for both
   read-modify-write and load operations, except that std::memory_order_acquire and
   std::memory_order_relaxed are used for the load operation if order ==
   std::memory_order_acq_rel, or order == std::memory_order_release respectively.

   The weak versions (1-4) may fail spuriously.

.SH Parameters

   expected - reference to the value expected to be found in the atomic object
   desired  - the value to store in the atomic object if it is as expected
   success  - the memory synchronization ordering for the read-modify-write operation
              if the comparison succeeds. All values are permitted.
              the memory synchronization ordering for the load operation if the
   failure  - comparison fails. Cannot be std::memory_order_release or
              std::memory_order_acq_rel and cannot specify stronger ordering than
              success
   order    - the memory synchronization ordering for both operations

.SH Return value

   true if the underlying atomic value was changed, false otherwise.

  Remarks

   All changes to the atomic_shared_ptr object itself, and all associated use_count
   increments, are guaranteed to be performed atomically. Associated use_count
   decrements take place after the atomic operation, but are not required to be part of
   it. Any associated destruction or deallocation operations take place after the
   atomic operation and are not part of it.

   If the compare-exchange operation return true, expected is not accessed after the
   atomic update step. If it returns false, expected is updated with the existing value
   read from the atomic_shared_ptr object in the attempted atomic update. The use_count
   update corresponding to the write to expected is part of the atomic operation, but
   the write to expected itself is not required to be part of the atomic operation.

   For overloads (1,3,5,7), desired is not accessed after the atomic update step.

   For overloads (2,4,6,8), desired is moved from only if the compare-exchange
   operation returns true; the moving occurs after the atomic update step.

.SH Notes

   The weak forms (1-4) of the functions are allowed to fail spuriously, that is, act
   as if *this and expected are not equivalent even when they are. When a
   compare-and-exchange is in a loop, the weak version will yield better performance on
   some platforms.

.SH See also

   std::atomic_is_lock_free(std::shared_ptr)
   std::atomic_load(std::shared_ptr)
   std::atomic_load_explicit(std::shared_ptr)
   std::atomic_store(std::shared_ptr)
   std::atomic_store_explicit(std::shared_ptr)                   specializes atomic
   std::atomic_exchange(std::shared_ptr)                         operations for
   std::atomic_exchange_explicit(std::shared_ptr)                std::shared_ptr
   std::atomic_compare_exchange_weak(std::shared_ptr)            \fI(function template)\fP
   std::atomic_compare_exchange_strong(std::shared_ptr)
   std::atomic_compare_exchange_weak_explicit(std::shared_ptr)
   std::atomic_compare_exchange_strong_explicit(std::shared_ptr)
   (deprecated in C++20)
