.TH std::basic_string::c_str 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_string::c_str \- std::basic_string::c_str

.SH Synopsis
   const CharT* c_str() const;

   Returns a pointer to a null-terminated character array with data equivalent to those
   stored in the string.

   The pointer is such that the range [c_str(); c_str() + size()] is valid and the
   values in it correspond to the values stored in the string with an additional null
   character after the last position.

   The pointer obtained from c_str() may be invalidated by:

     * Passing a non-const reference to the string to any standard library function, or
     * Calling non-const member functions on the string, excluding operator[], at(),
       front(), back(), begin(), rbegin(), end() and rend().

   Writing to the character array accessed through c_str() is undefined behavior.

   c_str() and data() perform the same function. \fI(since C++11)\fP

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   Pointer to the underlying character storage.

   data()[i] == operator[](i) for every i in [0, size()).   \fI(until C++11)\fP
   data() + i == &operator[](i) for every i in [0, size()]. \fI(since C++11)\fP

.SH Complexity

   Constant.

.SH Exceptions

   \fI(none)\fP                    \fI(until C++11)\fP
   noexcept specification:  
   noexcept                  \fI(since C++11)\fP
     

.SH Notes

   The pointer obtained from c_str() may only be treated as a pointer to a
   null-terminated character string if the string object does not contain other null
   characters.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <cassert>
 #include <cstring>
 #include <string>
  
 int main()
 {
   std::string const s("Emplary");
   assert(s.size() == std::strlen(s.c_str()));
   assert(std::equal(s.begin(), s.end(), s.c_str()));
   assert(std::equal(s.c_str(), s.c_str() + s.size(), s.begin()));
   assert(0 == *(s.c_str() + s.size()));
 }

.SH See also

   front   accesses the first character
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(public member function)\fP 
   back    accesses the last character
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(public member function)\fP 
   data    returns a pointer to the first character of a string
           \fI(public member function)\fP 

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept
