.TH std::chrono::from_stream(std::chrono::local_time) 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::from_stream(std::chrono::local_time) \- std::chrono::from_stream(std::chrono::local_time)

.SH Synopsis
   template <class CharT, class Traits, class Duration, class Alloc =
   std::allocator<CharT>>

   std::basic_istream<CharT, Traits>&
   from_stream(std::basic_istream<CharT, Traits>& is, const CharT* fmt,   \fI(since C++20)\fP
               std::chrono::local_time<Duration>& tp,
               std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, Alloc>* abbrev =
   nullptr,

               std::chrono::minutes* offset = nullptr);

   Attempts to parse the input stream is into the time point tp according to the format
   string fmt.

   Behaves as an UnformattedInputFunction, except that it has an unspecified effect on
   is.gcount(). After constructing and checking the sentry object, attempts to parse
   the input stream is into tp according to the format string fmt. If the parse fails
   to decode a valid time point, is.setstate(std::ios_base::failbit) is called and tp
   is not modified.

   If the format specifier %Z is used and successfully parsed, the parsed value is
   assigned to *abbrev if abbrev is not null. If the format specifier %z or a modified
   variant is used and successfully parsed, the parsed value is assigned to *offset if
   offset is not null.

.SH Miscellaneous
              Parses the locale's date and time representation.
       %c
      %Ec     The modified command %Ec interprets the locale's alternative date and
              time representation.
              Parses the offset from UTC in the format [+|-]hh[mm]. For example -0430
              refers to 4 hours 30 minutes behind UTC and 04 refers to 4 hours ahead
       %z     of UTC.
      %Ez
      %Oz     The modified commands %Ez and %Oz parses the format [+|-]h[h][:mm]
              (i.e., requiring a : between the hours and minutes and making the
              leading zero for hour optional).
              Parses the time zone abbreviation or name, taken as the longest sequence
       %Z     of characters that only contains the characters A through Z, a through
              z, 0 through 9, -, +, _, and /.

.SH Return value

   is.

.SH Notes

   This overload does not subtract the parsed offset (if any) from the parsed
   timestamp, unlike the from_stream overloads for the time_point of other clocks.

.SH See also

   parse   parses a chrono object from a stream
   (C++20) \fI(function template)\fP 
