.TH std::vector::erase 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::vector::erase \- std::vector::erase

.SH Synopsis
   iterator erase( iterator pos );                    \fI(until C++11)\fP
                                                      \fI(since C++11)\fP
   iterator erase( const_iterator pos );              (constexpr since
                                                      C++20)
   iterator erase( iterator first, iterator   \fB(1)\fP                      \fI(until C++11)\fP
   last );
   iterator erase( const_iterator first,          \fB(2)\fP                  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   const_iterator last );                                              (constexpr since
                                                                       C++20)

   Erases the specified elements from the container.

   1) Removes the element at pos.
   2) Removes the elements in the range [first, last).

   Iterators (including the end() iterator) and references to the elements at or after
   the point of the erase are invalidated.

   The iterator pos must be valid and dereferenceable. Thus the end() iterator (which
   is valid, but is not dereferenceable) cannot be used as a value for pos.

   The iterator first does not need to be dereferenceable if first == last: erasing an
   empty range is a no-op.

.SH Parameters

   pos         - iterator to the element to remove
   first, last - range of elements to remove
.SH Type requirements
   -
   T must meet the requirements of MoveAssignable.

.SH Return value

   Iterator following the last removed element.

   1) If pos refers to the last element, then the end() iterator is returned.
   2) If last == end() prior to removal, then the updated end() iterator is returned.
   If [first, last) is an empty range, then last is returned.

.SH Exceptions

   Does not throw unless an exception is thrown by the assignment operator of T.

.SH Complexity

   Linear: the number of calls to the destructor of T is the same as the number of
   elements erased, the assignment operator of T is called the number of times equal to
   the number of elements in the vector after the erased elements.

.SH Notes

   When container elements need to be erased based on a predicate, rather than
   iterating the container and calling unary erase, the iterator range overload is
   generally used with std::remove()/std::remove_if() to minimise the number of moves
   of the remaining (non-removed) elements, this is the erase-remove idiom.
   std::erase_if() replaces the erase-remove idiom.
   \fI(since C++20)\fP

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <vector>
 #include <iostream>


 void print_container(const std::vector<int>& c)
 {
     for (int i : c)
         std::cout << i << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> c{0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9};
     print_container(c);

     c.erase(c.begin());
     print_container(c);

     c.erase(c.begin() + 2, c.begin() + 5);
     print_container(c);

     // Erase all even numbers
     for (std::vector<int>::iterator it = c.begin(); it != c.end();)
     {
         if (*it % 2 == 0)
             it = c.erase(it);
         else
             ++it;
     }
     print_container(c);
 }

.SH Output:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
 1 2 6 7 8 9
 1 7 9

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

     DR    Applied to          Behavior as published              Correct behavior
                      first was required to be
   LWG 151 C++98      dereferenceable, which                  not required if
                      made the behavior of clearing an empty  first == last
                      vector undefined
   LWG 414 C++98      iterators at the point of erase were    they are also invalidated
                      not invalidated

.SH See also

   erase(std::vector)    erases all elements satisfying specific criteria
   erase_if(std::vector) \fI(function template)\fP
   (C++20)
   clear                 clears the contents
                         \fI(public member function)\fP
