.TH std::condition_variable::notify_all 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::condition_variable::notify_all \- std::condition_variable::notify_all

.SH Synopsis
   void notify_all() noexcept;  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Unblocks all threads currently waiting for *this.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Notes

   The effects of notify_one()/notify_all() and each of the three atomic parts of
   wait()/wait_for()/wait_until() (unlock+wait, wakeup, and lock) take place in a
   single total order that can be viewed as modification order of an atomic variable:
   the order is specific to this individual condition_variable. This makes it
   impossible for notify_one() to, for example, be delayed and unblock a thread that
   started waiting just after the call to notify_one() was made.

   The notifying thread does not need to hold the lock on the same mutex as the one
   held by the waiting thread(s); in fact doing so is a pessimization, since the
   notified thread would immediately block again, waiting for the notifying thread to
   release the lock.

.SH Example



// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <condition_variable>
 #include <thread>
 #include <chrono>

 std::condition_variable cv;
 std::mutex cv_m; // This mutex is used for three purposes:
                  // 1) to synchronize accesses to i
                  // 2) to synchronize accesses to std::cerr
                  // 3) for the condition variable cv
 int i = 0;

 void waits()
 {
     std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk(cv_m);
     std::cerr << "Waiting... \\n";
     cv.wait(lk, []{return i == 1;});
     std::cerr << "...finished waiting. i == 1\\n";
 }

 void signals()
 {
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(1));
     {
         std::lock_guard<std::mutex> lk(cv_m);
         std::cerr << "Notifying...\\n";
     }
     cv.notify_all();

     std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(1));

     {
         std::lock_guard<std::mutex> lk(cv_m);
         i = 1;
         std::cerr << "Notifying again...\\n";
     }
     cv.notify_all();
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::thread t1(waits), t2(waits), t3(waits), t4(signals);
     t1.join();
     t2.join();
     t3.join();
     t4.join();
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Waiting...
 Waiting...
 Waiting...
 Notifying...
 Notifying again...
 ...finished waiting. i == 1
 ...finished waiting. i == 1
 ...finished waiting. i == 1

.SH See also

   notify_one notifies one waiting thread
              \fI(public member function)\fP
   C documentation for
   cnd_broadcast

.SH Hidden category:

     * Pages with unreviewed LWG DR marker
