.TH std::experimental::ranges::common_type 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::ranges::common_type \- std::experimental::ranges::common_type

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/ranges/type_traits>
   template< class... T >                               (ranges TS)
   struct common_type;

   Determines the common type among all types T..., that is the type all T... can be
   implicitly converted to. If such a type exists (as determined according to the rules
   below), the member type names that type. Otherwise, there is no member type. The
   behavior is undefined if any of the types in T... is an incomplete type other than
   (possibly cv-qualified) void.

     * If sizeof...(T) is zero, there is no member type.
     * If sizeof...(T) is one (i.e., T... contains only one type T0), the member type
       names the same type as std::decay_t<T0>.
     * If sizeof...(T) is two (i.e., T... contains exactly two types T1 and T2),

              * If applying std::decay to at least one of T1 and T2 produces a
                different type, the member type names the same type as
                ranges::common_type_t<std::decay_t<T1>, std::decay_t<T2>>, if it
                exists; if not, there is no member type.
              * Otherwise, (and unless there is a user specialization for
                ranges::common_type<T1, T2>), if std::common_type_t<T1, T2> is
                well-formed, then the member type denotes that type;
              * Otherwise, the member type denotes the type std::decay_t<decltype(false
                ? std::declval<const T1&>() : std::declval<const T2&>())>, if that
                conditional expression is well-formed; if not, there is no member type.

     * If sizeof...(T) is greater than two (i.e., T... consists of the types T1, T2,
       R...), then if ranges::common_type_t<T1, T2> exists, the member type denotes
       ranges::common_type_t<ranges::common_type_t<T1, T2>, R...> if such a type
       exists. In all other cases, there is no member type.

.SH Member types

   Name Definition
   type the common type for all T...

.SH Helper types

   template< class... T >
   using common_type_t = typename common_type<T...>::type;

.SH Specializations

   Users may specialize common_type for types T1 and T2 if

     * At least one of T1 and T2 depends on a user-defined type, and
     * std::decay is an identity transformation for both T1 and T2.

   If such a specialization has a member named type, it must be a public and
   unambiguous member type that names a cv-unqualified non-reference type to which both
   T1 and T2 are explicitly convertible. Additionally, ranges::common_type_t<T1, T2>
   and ranges::common_type_t<T2, T1> must denote the same type.

   A program that adds common_type specializations in violation of these rules has
   undefined behavior.

.SH Notes

   For arithmetic types not subject to promotion, the common type may be viewed as the
   type of the (possibly mixed-mode) arithmetic expression such as T0() + T1() + ... +
   Tn().

.SH Examples

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   common_type      determines the common type of a group of types
   \fI(C++11)\fP          \fI(class template)\fP
   common_reference determine the common reference type of a set of types
                    \fI(class template)\fP
