.TH std::endl 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::endl \- std::endl

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <ostream>
   template< class CharT, class Traits >
   std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>& endl( std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>& os );

   Inserts a newline character into the output sequence os and flushes it as if by
   calling os.put(os.widen('\\n')) followed by os.flush().

   This is an output-only I/O manipulator, it may be called with an expression such as
   out << std::endl for any out of type std::basic_ostream.

.SH Notes

   This manipulator may be used to produce a line of output immediately, e.g. when
   displaying output from a long-running process, logging activity of multiple threads
   or logging activity of a program that may crash unexpectedly. An explicit flush of
   std::cout is also necessary before a call to std::system, if the spawned process
   performs any screen I/O. In most other usual interactive I/O scenarios, std::endl is
   redundant when used with std::cout because any input from std::cin, output to
   std::cerr, or program termination forces a call to std::cout.flush(). Use of
   std::endl in place of '\\n', encouraged by some sources, may significantly degrade
   output performance.

   In many implementations, standard output is line-buffered, and writing '\\n' causes a
   flush anyway, unless std::ios::sync_with_stdio(false) was executed. In those
   situations, unnecessary endl only degrades the performance of file output, not
   standard output.

   The code samples on this wiki follow Bjarne Stroustrup and The C++ Core Guidelines
   in flushing the standard output only where necessary.

   When an incomplete line of output needs to be flushed, the std::flush manipulator
   may be used.

   When every character of output needs to be flushed, the std::unitbuf manipulator may
   be used.

.SH Parameters

   os - reference to output stream

.SH Return value

   os (reference to the stream after manipulation).

.SH Example

   With '\\n' instead of endl, the output would be the same, but may not appear in real
   time.


// Run this code

 #include <chrono>
 #include <iostream>

 template<typename Diff>
 void log_progress(Diff d)
 {
     std::cout << std::chrono::duration_cast<std::chrono::milliseconds>(d)
               << " passed" << std::endl;
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::cout.sync_with_stdio(false); // on some platforms, stdout flushes on \\n

     static volatile int sink{};
     const auto t1 = std::chrono::high_resolution_clock::now();
     for (int i = 0; i < 5; ++i)
     {
         for (int j = 0; j < 10000; ++j)
             for (int k = 0; k < 20000; ++k)
                 sink += i * j * k; // do some work
         log_progress(std::chrono::high_resolution_clock::now() - t1);
     }
 }

.SH Possible output:

 566ms passed
 1133ms passed
 1699ms passed
 2262ms passed
 2829ms passed

.SH See also

   unitbuf   controls whether output is flushed after each operation
   nounitbuf \fI(function)\fP
   flush     flushes the output stream
             \fI(function template)\fP
   flush     synchronizes with the underlying storage device
             \fI(public member function of std::basic_ostream<CharT,Traits>)\fP
