.TH std::flat_multiset::insert 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::flat_multiset::insert \- std::flat_multiset::insert

.SH Synopsis
   iterator insert( const value_type& value )                         \fB(1)\fP (since C++23)
   iterator insert( value_type&& value );                             \fB(2)\fP (since C++23)
   iterator insert( const_iterator pos, const value_type& value );    \fB(3)\fP (since C++23)
   iterator insert( const_iterator pos, value_type&& value );         \fB(4)\fP (since C++23)
   template< class InputIt >                                          \fB(5)\fP (since C++23)
   void insert( InputIt first, InputIt last );
   template< class InputIt >
   void insert( std::sorted_equivalent_t, InputIt first, InputIt last \fB(6)\fP (since C++23)
   );
   void insert( std::initializer_list<key_type> ilist );              \fB(7)\fP (since C++23)
   void insert( std::sorted_equivalent_t s,                           \fB(8)\fP (since C++23)
   std::initializer_list<key_type> ilist );

   Inserts element(s) into the container. The order of the remaining equivalent
   elements is preserved.

   1) Inserts value. If the container has elements with equivalent key, inserts at the
   upper bound of that range. Equivalent to return emplace(value);.
   2) Inserts value. If the container has elements with equivalent key, inserts at the
   upper bound of that range. Equivalent to return emplace(std::move(value));.
   3) Inserts value in the position as close as possible to the position just prior to
   pos. Equivalent to return emplace_hint(pos, value);.
   4) Inserts value in the position as close as possible to the position just prior to
   pos. Equivalent to return emplace_hint(pos, std::move(value));.
   5) Inserts elements from range [first, last) as if performing the following
   operations sequentially:
    1. Adds elements to c as if by c.insert(c.end(), first, last);.
    2. Sorts the range of newly inserted elements with respect to compare.
    3. Merges the resulting sorted range and the sorted range of pre-existing elements
       into a single sorted range.
   May allocate memory during the in-place merge stage.
   6) Inserts elements from range [first, last). Equivalent to insert(first, last);.
   7) Inserts elements from initializer list ilist. Equivalent to insert(ilist.begin(),
   ilist.end());.
   8) Inserts elements from initializer list ilist. Equivalent to insert(s,
   ilist.begin(), ilist.end());.

    Information on iterator invalidation is copied from here

.SH Parameters

   pos         - iterator to the position before which the new element will be inserted
   value       - element value to insert
   first, last - range of elements to insert
   ilist       - initializer list to insert the values from
   s           - a disambiguation tag indicating that the input sequence is sorted
                 (with respect to key_compare)
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of LegacyInputIterator.

.SH Return value

   1-4) An iterator to the inserted element.
   5-8) \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   1-4) Depends on underlying container.
   5-8) No exception safety guarantee.

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: exception guarantees 1..8

.SH Complexity

   1-4) Linear.
   5) N + M·log(M), where NN is the size() before the operation and M is
   std::distance(first, last).
   6) Linear.
   7) N + M·log(M), where NN is the size() before the operation and M is ilist.size().
   8) Linear.

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: recheck the complexity: 1-4, 8

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   emplace      constructs element in-place
                \fI(public member function)\fP
   emplace_hint constructs elements in-place using a hint
                \fI(public member function)\fP
   inserter     creates a std::insert_iterator of type inferred from the argument
                \fI(function template)\fP

.SH Categories:
     * Todo with reason
     * Todo no example
