.TH std::shared_mutex::lock 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::shared_mutex::lock \- std::shared_mutex::lock

.SH Synopsis
   void lock();  \fI(since C++17)\fP

   Acquires an exclusive ownership of the shared_mutex. If another thread is holding an
   exclusive lock or a shared lock on the same shared_mutex the a call to lock will
   block execution until all such locks are released. While shared_mutex is locked in
   an exclusive mode, no other lock of any kind can also be held.

   If lock is called by a thread that already owns the shared_mutex in any mode
   (exclusive or shared), the behavior is undefined. A prior unlock() operation on the
   same mutex synchronizes-with (as defined in std::memory_order) this operation.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   Throws std::system_error when errors occur, including errors from the underlying
   operating system that would prevent lock from meeting its specifications. The mutex
   is not locked in the case of any exception being thrown.

.SH Notes

   lock() is usually not called directly: std::unique_lock, std::scoped_lock, and
   std::lock_guard are used to manage exclusive locking.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <chrono>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <mutex>
 #include <shared_mutex>
 #include <syncstream>
 #include <thread>
 #include <vector>

 std::mutex stream_mutx;
 void print(auto const& v)
 {
     std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lock(stream_mutx);
     std::cout << std::this_thread::get_id() << " saw: ";
     for (auto e : v)
         std::cout << e << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     using namespace std::chrono_literals;
     constexpr int N_READERS = 5;
     constexpr int LAST = -999;

     std::shared_mutex smtx;
     int product = 0;

     auto writer = [&smtx, &product](int start, int end)
     {
         for (int i = start; i < end; ++i)
         {
             auto data = i;
             {
                 std::unique_lock<std::shared_mutex> lock(smtx); // better than:
                                                                 // smtx.lock();
                 product = data;
             }
             std::this_thread::sleep_for(3ms);
         }

         smtx.lock(); // lock manually
         product = LAST;
         smtx.unlock();
     };

     auto reader = [&smtx, &product]
     {
         int data = 0;
         std::vector<int> seen;
         do
         {
             {
                 // better to use:
                 std::shared_lock lock(smtx); // smtx.lock_shared();
                 data = product;
             }                                // smtx.unlock_shared();

             seen.push_back(data);
             std::this_thread::sleep_for(2ms);
         }
         while (data != LAST);

         print(seen);
     };

     std::vector<std::thread> threads;
     threads.emplace_back(writer, 1, 13);
     threads.emplace_back(writer, 42, 52);

     for (int i = 0; i < N_READERS; ++i)
         threads.emplace_back(reader);

     for (auto&& t : threads)
         t.join();
 }

.SH Possible output:

 127755840 saw: 43 3 3 4 46 5 6 7 7 8 9 51 10 11 11 12 -999
 144541248 saw: 2 44 3 4 46 5 6 7 7 8 9 51 10 11 11 12 -999
 110970432 saw: 42 2 3 45 4 5 47 6 7 8 8 9 10 11 11 12 -999
 119363136 saw: 42 2 3 4 46 5 6 7 7 8 9 9 10 11 11 12 12 -999
 136148544 saw: 2 44 3 4 46 5 6 48 7 8 9 51 10 11 11 12 12 -999

.SH See also

   try_lock    tries to lock the mutex, returns if the mutex is not available
               \fI(public member function)\fP
   unlock      unlocks the mutex
               \fI(public member function)\fP
               locks the mutex for shared ownership, blocks if the mutex is not
   lock_shared available
               \fI(public member function)\fP
