.TH std::valarray::valarray 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::valarray::valarray \- std::valarray::valarray

.SH Synopsis
   valarray();                                   \fB(1)\fP
   explicit valarray( std::size_t count );       \fB(2)\fP
   valarray( const T& val, std::size_t count );  \fB(3)\fP
   valarray( const T* vals, std::size_t count ); \fB(4)\fP
   valarray( const valarray& other );            \fB(5)\fP
   valarray( valarray&& other ) noexcept;        \fB(6)\fP  \fI(since C++11)\fP
   valarray( const std::slice_array<T>& sa );    \fB(7)\fP
   valarray( const std::gslice_array<T>& gsa );  \fB(8)\fP
   valarray( const std::mask_array<T>& ma );     \fB(9)\fP
   valarray( const std::indirect_array<T>& ia ); \fB(10)\fP
   valarray( std::initializer_list<T> il );      \fB(11)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Constructs new numeric array from various sources.

   1) Default constructor. Constructs an empty numeric array.
   2) Constructs a numeric array with count copies of value-initialized elements.
   3) Constructs a numeric array with count copies of val.
   4) Constructs a numeric array with copies of count values from an array pointed to
   by vals. If this array contains less than count values, the behavior is undefined.
   5) Copy constructor. Constructs the numeric array with the copy of the contents of
   other.
   6) Move constructor. Constructs the container with the contents of other using move
   semantics.
   7-10) Converting constructor. Convert the corresponding data structure to a
   valarray.
   11) Constructs the numeric array with the contents of the initializer list il.

.SH Parameters

   count - the number of elements to construct
   val   - the value to initialize the elements with
   vals  - pointer to a C array to use as source to initialize the contents
   other - another numeric array to use as source to initialize the contents
   sa    - slice array to initialize the elements with
   gsa   - generic slice array to initialize the elements with
   ma    - mask array to initialize the elements with
   ia    - indirect array to initialize the elements with
   il    - initializer list to initialize the elements with

.SH Exceptions

   1-5, 7-11) May throw implementation-defined exceptions.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
