.TH std::longjmp 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::longjmp \- std::longjmp

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <csetjmp>
   void longjmp( std::jmp_buf env, int status );               \fI(until C++17)\fP
   [[noreturn]] void longjmp( std::jmp_buf env, int status );  \fI(since C++17)\fP

   Loads the execution context env saved by a previous call to setjmp. This function
   does not return. Control is transferred to the call site of the macro setjmp that
   set up env. That setjmp then returns the value, passed as the status.

   If the function that called setjmp has exited, the behavior is undefined (in other
   words, only long jumps up the call stack are allowed).

.SH Parameters

   env    - variable referring to the execution state of the program saved by setjmp
   status - the value to return from setjmp. If it is equal to 0, 1 is used instead

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Notes

   std::longjmp is the mechanism used in C to handle unexpected error conditions where
   the function cannot return meaningfully. C++ generally uses exception handling for
   this purpose.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <array>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <csetjmp>
 #include <cstdlib>
 #include <format>
 #include <iostream>

 std::jmp_buf solver_error_handler;

 std::array<double, 2> solve_quadratic_equation(double a, double b, double c)
 {
     const double discriminant = b * b - 4.0 * a * c;
     if (discriminant < 0)
         std::longjmp(solver_error_handler, true); // Go to error handler

     const double delta = std::sqrt(discriminant) / (2.0 * a);
     const double argmin = -b / (2.0 * a);
     return {argmin - delta, argmin + delta};
 }

 void show_quadratic_equation_solution(double a, double b, double c)
 {
     std::cout << std::format("Solving {}x² + {}x + {} = 0...\\n", a, b, c);
     auto [x_0, x_1] = solve_quadratic_equation(a, b, c);
     std::cout << std::format("x₁ = {}, x₂ = {}\\n\\n", x_0, x_1);
 }

 int main()
 {
     if (setjmp(solver_error_handler))
     {
         // Error handler for solver
         std::cout << "No real solution\\n";
         return EXIT_FAILURE;
     }

     for (auto [a, b, c] : {std::array{1, -3, 2}, {2, -3, -2}, {1, 2, 3}})
         show_quadratic_equation_solution(a, b, c);

     return EXIT_SUCCESS;
 }

.SH Output:

 Solving 1x² + -3x + 2 = 0...
 x₁ = 1, x₂ = 2

 Solving 2x² + -3x + -2 = 0...
 x₁ = -0.5, x₂ = 2

 Solving 1x² + 2x + 3 = 0...
 No real solution

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

     DR    Applied to         Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 619 C++98      the wording of the extra restrictions improved the wording
                      in C++ was vague
                      the behavior was undefined if         the behavior is only
                      replacing                             undefined
   LWG 894 C++98      std::longjmp with throw and setjmp    if a non-trivial destructor
                      with                                  for
                      catch would destroy any automatic     any automatic object is
                      object                                invoked

.SH See also

   setjmp saves the context
          \fI(function macro)\fP
   C documentation for
   longjmp
