.TH std::adjacent_find 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::adjacent_find \- std::adjacent_find

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class ForwardIt >
   ForwardIt adjacent_find( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last \fB(1)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class ForwardIt >

   ForwardIt adjacent_find( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,       \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP

                            ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last
   );
   template< class ForwardIt, class BinaryPred >

   ForwardIt adjacent_find( ForwardIt first, ForwardIt      \fB(3)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   last,

                            BinaryPred p );
   template< class ExecutionPolicy, class ForwardIt, class
   BinaryPred >

   ForwardIt adjacent_find( ExecutionPolicy&& policy,       \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
                            ForwardIt first, ForwardIt
   last,

                            BinaryPred p );

   Searches the range [first, last) for two consecutive equal elements.

   1) Elements are compared using operator==.
   3) Elements are compared using the given binary predicate p.
   2,4) Same as (1,3), but executed according to policy.
   These overloads participate in overload resolution only if

   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::decay_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true.        (until
                                                                             C++20)
   std::is_execution_policy_v<std::remove_cvref_t<ExecutionPolicy>> is true. (since
                                                                             C++20)

.SH Parameters

   first, last - the range of elements to examine
   policy      - the execution policy to use. See execution policy for details.
                 binary predicate which returns true if the elements should be treated
                 as equal.

                 The signature of the predicate function should be equivalent to the
                 following:

                  bool pred(const Type1 &a, const Type2 &b);

   p           - While the signature does not need to have const &, the function must
                 not modify the objects passed to it and must be able to accept all
                 values of type (possibly const) Type1 and Type2 regardless of value
                 category (thus, Type1 & is not allowed
                 , nor is Type1 unless for Type1 a move is equivalent to a copy
                 \fI(since C++11)\fP).
                 The types Type1 and Type2 must be such that an object of type
                 ForwardIt can be dereferenced and then implicitly converted to both of
                 them.
.SH Type requirements
   -
   ForwardIt must meet the requirements of LegacyForwardIterator.
   -
   BinaryPred must meet the requirements of BinaryPredicate.

.SH Return value

   An iterator to the first of the first pair of identical elements, that is, the first
   iterator it such that *it == *(it + 1) for (1,2) or p(*it, *(it + 1)) != false for
   (3,4).

   If no such elements are found, last is returned.

.SH Complexity

   Given result as the return value of adjacent_find, \\(\\scriptsize M\\)M as
   std::distance(first, result) and \\(\\scriptsize N\\)N as std::distance(first, last):

   1) Exactly \\(\\scriptsize \\min(M+1,N-1)\\)min(M+1,N-1) comparisons using operator==.
   2) \\(\\scriptsize O(N)\\)O(N) comparisons using operator==.
   3) Exactly \\(\\scriptsize \\min(M+1,N-1)\\)min(M+1,N-1) applications of the predicate
   p.
   4) \\(\\scriptsize O(N)\\)O(N) applications of the predicate p.

.SH Exceptions

   The overloads with a template parameter named ExecutionPolicy report errors as
   follows:

     * If execution of a function invoked as part of the algorithm throws an exception
       and ExecutionPolicy is one of the standard policies, std::terminate is called.
       For any other ExecutionPolicy, the behavior is implementation-defined.
     * If the algorithm fails to allocate memory, std::bad_alloc is thrown.

.SH Possible implementation

                             adjacent_find \fB(1)\fP
   template<class ForwardIt>
   ForwardIt adjacent_find(ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last)
   {
       if (first == last)
           return last;

       ForwardIt next = first;
       ++next;

       for (; next != last; ++next, ++first)
           if (*first == *next)
               return first;

       return last;
   }
                             adjacent_find \fB(3)\fP
   template<class ForwardIt, class BinaryPred>
   ForwardIt adjacent_find(ForwardIt first, ForwardIt last, BinaryPred p)
   {
       if (first == last)
           return last;

       ForwardIt next = first;
       ++next;

       for (; next != last; ++next, ++first)
           if (p(*first, *next))
               return first;

       return last;
   }

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <functional>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <vector>

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> v1{0, 1, 2, 3, 40, 40, 41, 41, 5};

     auto i1 = std::adjacent_find(v1.begin(), v1.end());

     if (i1 == v1.end())
         std::cout << "No matching adjacent elements\\n";
     else
         std::cout << "The first adjacent pair of equal elements is at "
                   << std::distance(v1.begin(), i1) << ", *i1 = "
                   << *i1 << '\\n';

     auto i2 = std::adjacent_find(v1.begin(), v1.end(), std::greater<int>());
     if (i2 == v1.end())
         std::cout << "The entire vector is sorted in ascending order\\n";
     else
         std::cout << "The last element in the non-decreasing subsequence is at "
                   << std::distance(v1.begin(), i2) << ", *i2 = " << *i2 << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 The first adjacent pair of equal elements is at 4, *i1 = 40
 The last element in the non-decreasing subsequence is at 7, *i2 = 41

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

     DR    Applied to          Behavior as published              Correct behavior
                      the predicate was applied std::find     applied std::min(
   LWG 240 C++98      (first, last, value) - first times      (result - first) + 1,
                      for (1,3), where value was never        (last - first) - 1) times
                      defined

.SH See also

   unique                removes consecutive duplicate elements in a range
                         \fI(function template)\fP
   ranges::adjacent_find finds the first two adjacent items that are equal (or satisfy
   (C++20)               a given predicate)
                         (niebloid)
