.TH std::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource::synchronized_pool_resource 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource::synchronized_pool_resource \- std::pmr::synchronized_pool_resource::synchronized_pool_resource

.SH Synopsis
   synchronized_pool_resource();                                      \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   explicit synchronized_pool_resource( std::pmr::memory_resource*    \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   upstream );
   explicit synchronized_pool_resource( const std::pmr::pool_options& \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   opts );
   synchronized_pool_resource( const std::pmr::pool_options& opts,    \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
                               std::pmr::memory_resource* upstream );
   synchronized_pool_resource( const synchronized_pool_resource& ) =  \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   delete;

   Constructs a synchronized_pool_resource.

   1-4) Constructs a synchronized_pool_resource using the specified upstream memory
   resource and tuned according to the specified options. The resulting object holds a
   copy of upstream but does not own the resource to which upstream points.
   The overloads not taking opts as a parameter uses a default constructed instance of
   pool_options as the options. The overloads not taking upstream as a parameter uses
   the return value of std::pmr::get_default_resource as the upstream memory resource.
   5) Copy constructor is deleted.

.SH Parameters

   opts     - a std::pmr::pool_options struct containing the constructor options
   upstream - the upstream memory resource to use

.SH Exceptions

   1-4) Throws only if a call to the allocate() function of the upstream resource
   throws. It is unspecified if or under what conditions such a call takes place.
