.TH std::wcscoll 3 "Apr 19 2014" "1.0.0" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cwchar>
   int wcscoll( const wchar_t* lhs, const wchar_t* rhs );

   Compares two null-terminated wide strings according to the locale most recently
   installed by std::setlocale, as defined by the LC_COLLATE category.

.SH Contents

     * 1 Parameters
     * 2 Return value
     * 3 Notes
     * 4 Example
     * 5 See also

.SH Parameters

   lhs, rhs - pointers to the null-terminated wide strings to compare

.SH Return value

   Negative value if lhs is less than (precedes) rhs.

   0 if lhs is equal to rhs.

   Positive value if lhs is greater than (follows) rhs.

.SH Notes

   Collation order is the dictionary order: the position of the letter in the national
   alphabet (its equivalence class) has higher priority than its case or variant.
   Within an equivalence class, lowercase characters collate before their uppercase
   equivalents and locale-specific order may apply to the characters with diacritics.
   In some locales, groups of characters compare as single collation units. For
   example, "ch" in Czech follows "h" and precedes "i", and "dzs" in Hungarian follows
   "dz" and precedes "g".

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <clocale>

 void try_compare(const wchar_t* p1, const wchar_t* p2)
 {
     if(std::wcscoll(p1, p2) < 0)
          std::wcout << p1 << " before " << p2 << '\\n';
     else
          std::wcout << p2 << " before " << p1 << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::setlocale(LC_ALL, "en_US.utf8");
     std::wcout << "In the American locale: ";
     try_compare(L"hrnec", L"chrt");

     std::setlocale(LC_COLLATE, "cs_CZ.utf8");
     std::wcout << "In the Czech locale: ";
     try_compare(L"hrnec", L"chrt");

     std::setlocale(LC_COLLATE, "en_US.utf8");
     std::wcout << "In the American locale: ";
     try_compare(L"år", L"ängel");

     std::setlocale(LC_COLLATE, "sv_SE.utf8");
     std::wcout << "In the Swedish locale: ";
     try_compare(L"år", L"ängel");
 }

.SH Output:

 In the American locale: chrt before hrnec
 In the Czech locale: hrnec before chrt
 In the American locale: ängel before år
 In the Swedish locale: år before ängel

.SH See also

   strcoll    compares two strings in accordance to the current locale
              \fI(function)\fP
   do_compare compares two strings using this facet's collation rules
   \fB[virtual]\fP  \fI(virtual protected member function of std::collate)\fP
              transform a wide string so that wcscmp would produce the same result as
   wcsxfrm    wcscoll
              \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   wcscoll
