.TH std::any_cast 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::any_cast \- std::any_cast

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <any>
   template< class T >                               \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   T any_cast( const any& operand );
   template< class T >                               \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   T any_cast( any& operand );
   template< class T >                               \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   T any_cast( any&& operand );
   template< class T >                               \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   const T* any_cast( const any* operand ) noexcept;
   template< class T >                               \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   T* any_cast( any* operand ) noexcept;

   Performs type-safe access to the contained object.

   Let U be std::remove_cv_t<std::remove_reference_t<T>>.

   1) The program is ill-formed if std::is_constructible_v<T, const U&> is false.
   2) The program is ill-formed if std::is_constructible_v<T, U&> is false.
   3) The program is ill-formed if std::is_constructible_v<T, U> is false.
   4,5) The program is ill-formed if std::is_void_v<T> is true.

.SH Parameters

   operand - target any object

.SH Return value

   1,2) Returns static_cast<T>(*std::any_cast<U>(&operand)).
   3) Returns static_cast<T>(std::move(*std::any_cast<U>(&operand))).
   4,5) If operand is not a null pointer, and the typeid of the requested T matches
   that of the contents of operand, a pointer to the value contained by operand,
   otherwise a null pointer.

.SH Exceptions

   1-3) Throws std::bad_any_cast if the typeid of the requested T does not match that
   of the contents of operand.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <any>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <type_traits>
 #include <utility>

 int main()
 {
     // Simple example
     auto a1 = std::any(12);
     std::cout << "1) a1 is int: " << std::any_cast<int>(a1) << '\\n';

     try
     {
         auto s = std::any_cast<std::string>(a1); // throws
     }
     catch (const std::bad_any_cast& e)
     {
         std::cout << "2) " << e.what() << '\\n';
     }

     // Pointer example
     if (int* i = std::any_cast<int>(&a1))
         std::cout << "3) a1 is int: " << *i << '\\n';
     else if (std::string* s = std::any_cast<std::string>(&a1))
         std::cout << "3) a1 is std::string: " << *s << '\\n';
     else
         std::cout << "3) a1 is another type or unset\\n";

     // Advanced example
     a1 = std::string("hello");
     auto& ra = std::any_cast<std::string&>(a1); //< reference
     ra[1] = 'o';

     std::cout << "4) a1 is string: "
               << std::any_cast<std::string const&>(a1) << '\\n'; //< const reference

     auto s1 = std::any_cast<std::string&&>(std::move(a1)); //< rvalue reference
     // Note: “s1” is a move-constructed std::string:
     static_assert(std::is_same_v<decltype(s1), std::string>);

     // Note: the std::string in “a1” is left in valid but unspecified state
     std::cout << "5) a1.size(): "
               << std::any_cast<std::string>(&a1)->size() //< pointer
               << '\\n'
               << "6) s1: " << s1 << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 1) a1 is int: 12
 2) bad any_cast
 3) a1 is int: 12
 4) a1 is string: hollo
 5) a1.size(): 0
 6) s1: hollo

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to         Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 3305 C++17      the behavior of overloads (4,5) was    the program ill-formed in
                       unclear if T is void                   this case
