.TH std::ranges::views::reverse,std::ranges::reverse_view 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::views::reverse,std::ranges::reverse_view \- std::ranges::views::reverse,std::ranges::reverse_view

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <ranges>
   template< ranges::view V >

   requires ranges::bidirectional_range<V>                            \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   class reverse_view : public
   ranges::view_interface<reverse_view<V>>
   namespace views {

   inline constexpr /* unspecified */ reverse = /* unspecified */;    \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   }
   Call signature
   template< ranges::viewable_range R >

   requires /* see below */                                               \fI(since C++20)\fP

   constexpr ranges::view auto reverse( R&& r );

   1) A range adaptor that represents a view of underlying view with reversed order.
   2) Range adaptor object. The expression views::reverse(e) is expression-equivalent
   to one of the following expressions, except that e is evaluated only once:

     * e.base(), if the type of e is a (possibly cv-qualified) specialization of
       reverse_view;
     * otherwise, if the type of e is (possibly cv-qualified)
       ranges::subrange<std::reverse_iterator<I>, std::reverse_iterator<I>, K> for some
       iterator type I and value K of type ranges::subrange_kind:

              * ranges::subrange<I, I, K>(e.end().base(), e.begin().base(), e.size()),
                if K is ranges::subrange_kind::sized;
              * otherwise ranges::subrange<I, I, K>(e.end().base(), e.begin().base());

     * otherwise ranges::reverse_view{e}.

   In other words, views::reverse unwraps reversed views if possible.

   A reverse_view always models bidirectional_range and common_range, and it models
   borrowed_range, sized_range, or random_access_range if the underlying view type V
   models the corresponding concept.

  Expression-equivalent

   Expression e is expression-equivalent to expression f, if e and f have the same
   effects, either are both potentially-throwing or are both not potentially-throwing
   (i.e. noexcept(e) == noexcept(f)), and either are both constant subexpressions or
   are both not constant subexpressions.

  Data members

   Typical implementations of reverse_view hold only one or two member objects:

     * the underlying view of type V (shown here as base_, the name is exposition
       only), and
     * a std::optional-like cache object that holds either no value or the end
       iterator/position of the underlying view, which exists only if the underlying
       view type V does not model common_range.

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs a reverse_view
   (C++20)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   base          returns the underlying view V
   (C++20)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   begin         returns the beginning iterator of the reverse_view
   (C++20)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   end           returns the end iterator of the reverse_view
   (C++20)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   size          returns the size of the view if it is bounded
   (C++20)       \fI(public member function)\fP
         Inherited from std::ranges::view_interface
   empty         Returns whether the derived view is empty. Provided if it satisfies
   (C++20)       forward_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   operator bool Returns whether the derived view is not empty. Provided if
   (C++20)       ranges::empty is applicable to it.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   front         Returns the first element in the derived view. Provided if it
   (C++20)       satisfies forward_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   back          Returns the last element in the derived view. Provided if it satisfies
   (C++20)       bidirectional_range and common_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   operator[]    Returns the nth element in the derived view. Provided if it satisfies
   (C++20)       random_access_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP

std::ranges::reverse_view::reverse_view

   reverse_view() requires std::default_initializable<V> = default; \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr reverse_view(V r);                                     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   1) Value-initializes base_ via its default member initializer (= V()).
   2) Initializes base_ with std::move(r).

.SH Parameters

   r - range to reverse

std::ranges::reverse_view::base

   constexpr V base() const& requires std::copy_constructible<V>; \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr V base() &&;                                         \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   Returns the underlying view.

   1) Copy-constructs the result form the underlying view. Equivalent to return base_;.
   2) Move-constructs the result form the underlying view. Equivalent to return
   std::move(base_);.

std::ranges::reverse_view::begin

   constexpr std::reverse_iterator<ranges::iterator_t<V>> begin();    \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr std::reverse_iterator<ranges::iterator_t<V>> begin()     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   requires ranges::common_range<V>;
   constexpr auto begin() const requires ranges::common_range<const   \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   V>;

   1) Returns std::make_reverse_iterator(ranges::next(ranges::begin(base_),
   ranges::end(base_))). In order to provide the amortized constant time complexity
   required by the range concept, this function caches the result within the cache
   object for use on subsequent calls.
   2-3) Equivalent to return std::make_reverse_iterator(ranges::end(base_));.

std::ranges::reverse_view::end

   constexpr std::reverse_iterator<ranges::iterator_t<V>> end();      \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr auto end() const requires ranges::common_range<const V>; \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   Equivalent to return std::make_reverse_iterator(ranges::begin(base_));.

std::ranges::reverse_view::size

   constexpr auto size() requires ranges::sized_range<V> {

   return ranges::size(base_);                                        \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   }
   constexpr auto size() const requires ranges::sized_range<const V>
   {
                                                                      \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   return ranges::size(base_);

   }

   Returns the size of the view if the view is bounded.

  Deduction guides

   template<class R>                                    \fI(since C++20)\fP
   reverse_view(R&&) -> reverse_view<views::all_t<R>>;

  Helper templates

   template<class T>

   inline constexpr bool                                                  \fI(since C++20)\fP
   enable_borrowed_range<std::ranges::reverse_view<T>> =

   std::ranges::enable_borrowed_range<T>;

   This specialization of std::ranges::enable_borrowed_range makes reverse_view satisfy
   borrowed_range when the underlying view satisfies it.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <ranges>
 #include <iostream>

 int main()
 {
     static constexpr auto il = {3, 1, 4, 1, 5, 9};

     std::ranges::reverse_view rv {il};
     for (int i : rv)
         std::cout << i << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';

     for (int i : il | std::views::reverse)
         std::cout << i << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';

     // operator[] is inherited from `view_interface`
     for (auto i{0U}; i != rv.size(); ++i)
         std::cout << rv[i] << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 9 5 1 4 1 3
 9 5 1 4 1 3
 9 5 1 4 1 3

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to  Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 3494 C++20      reverse_view was never a it is a borrowed_range if its
                       borrowed_range           underlying view is

.SH See also

   reverse_iterator     iterator adaptor for reverse-order traversal
                        \fI(class template)\fP
   ranges::reverse      reverses the order of elements in a range
   (C++20)              (niebloid)
   ranges::reverse_copy creates a copy of a range that is reversed
   (C++20)              (niebloid)
