.TH std::wcstol,std::wcstoll 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::wcstol,std::wcstoll \- std::wcstol,std::wcstoll

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cwchar>
   long wcstol( const wchar_t* str, wchar_t** str_end, int base );
   long long wcstoll( const wchar_t* str, wchar_t** str_end, int base );  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Interprets an integer value in a wide string pointed to by str.

   Discards any whitespace characters (as identified by calling isspace()) until the
   first non-whitespace character is found, then takes as many characters as possible
   to form a valid base-n (where n=base) integer number representation and converts
   them to an integer value. The valid integer value consists of the following parts:

     * (optional) plus or minus sign
     * (optional) prefix \fB(0)\fP indicating octal base (applies only when the base is 8 or
       0)
     * (optional) prefix (0x or 0X) indicating hexadecimal base (applies only when the
       base is 16 or 0)
     * a sequence of digits

   The set of valid values for base is {0,2,3,...,36}. The set of valid digits for
   base-2 integers is {0,1}, for base-3 integers is {0,1,2}, and so on. For bases
   larger than 10, valid digits include alphabetic characters, starting from Aa for
   base-11 integer, to Zz for base-36 integer. The case of the characters is ignored.

   Additional numeric formats may be accepted by the currently installed C locale.

   If the value of base is 0, the numeric base is auto-detected: if the prefix is 0,
   the base is octal, if the prefix is 0x or 0X, the base is hexadecimal, otherwise the
   base is decimal.

   If the minus sign was part of the input sequence, the numeric value calculated from
   the sequence of digits is negated as if by unary minus in the result type.

   The functions sets the pointer pointed to by str_end to point to the wide character
   past the last character interpreted. If str_end is NULL, it is ignored.

.SH Parameters

   str     - pointer to the null-terminated wide string to be interpreted
   str_end - pointer to a pointer to wide character
   base    - base of the interpreted integer value

.SH Return value

   Integer value corresponding to the contents of str on success. If the converted
   value falls out of range of corresponding return type, range error occurs and
   LONG_MAX, LONG_MIN, LLONG_MAX or LLONG_MIN is returned. If no conversion can be
   performed, 0 is returned.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <errno.h>
 #include <cwchar>

 int main()
 {
     const wchar_t* p = L"10 200000000000000000000000000000 30 -40";
     wchar_t *end;
     std::wcout << "Parsing L'" << p << "':\\n";
     for (long i = std::wcstol(p, &end, 10);
          p != end;
          i = std::wcstol(p, &end, 10))
     {
         std::wcout << "'" << std::wstring(p, end-p) << "' -> ";
         p = end;
         if (errno == ERANGE){
             std::wcout << "range error, got ";
             errno = 0;
         }
         std::wcout << i << '\\n';
     }
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Parsing L'10 200000000000000000000000000000 30 -40':
 '10' -> 10
 ' 200000000000000000000000000000' -> range error, got 9223372036854775807
 ' 30' -> 30
 ' -40' -> -40

.SH See also

   strtol   converts a byte string to an integer value
   strtoll  \fI(function)\fP
   wcstoul  converts a wide string to an unsigned integer value
   wcstoull \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   wcstol,
   wcstoll
