.TH std::basic_streambuf::pbackfail 3 "Apr 19 2014" "1.0.0" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH Synopsis
   protected:
   virtual int_type pbackfail( int_type c = Traits::eof() );

   This protected virtual function is called by the public functions sungetc() and
   sputbackc() (which, in turn, are called by basic_istream::unget and
   basic_istream::putback) when either:

   1) There is no putback position in the get area (pbackfail() is called with no
   arguments). In this situation, the purpose of pbackfail() is to back up the get area
   by one character, if the associated character sequence allows this (e.g. a
   file-backed streambuf may reload the buffer from a file, starting one character
   earlier).
   2) The caller attempts to putback a different character from the one retrieved
   earlier (pbackfail() is called with the character that needs to be put back). In
   this situation, the purpose of pbackfail() is to place the character c into the get
   area at the position just before basic_streambuf::gptr(), and, if possible, to
   modify the associated character sequence to reflect this change. This may involve
   backing up the get area as in the first variant.

   The default base class version of this function does nothing and returns
   Traits::eof() in all situations. This function is overloaded by the derived classes:
   basic_stringbuf::pbackfail, basic_filebuf::pbackfail, strstreambuf::pbackfail, and
   is expected to be overloaded by user-defined and third-party library stream classes.

.SH Contents

     * 1 Parameters
     * 2 Return value
     * 3 Example
     * 4 See also

.SH Parameters

   ch - character to put back or Traits::eof() if only back out is requested

.SH Return value

   Traits::eof() in case of failure, some other value to indicate success. The base
   class version always fails.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   pbackfail backs out the input sequence to unget a character, not affecting the
   \fB[virtual]\fP associated file
             \fI(virtual protected member function of std::basic_filebuf)\fP
   pbackfail puts a character back into the input sequence
   \fB[virtual]\fP \fI(virtual protected member function of std::basic_stringbuf)\fP
   pbackfail backs out the input sequence to unget a character
   \fB[virtual]\fP \fI(virtual protected member function of std::strstreambuf)\fP
   sungetc   moves the next pointer in the input sequence back by one
             \fI(public member function)\fP
   sputbackc puts one character back in the input sequence
             \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
