.TH std::srand 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::srand \- std::srand

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdlib>
   void srand( unsigned seed );

   Seeds the pseudo-random number generator used by std::rand() with the value seed.

   If rand() is used before any calls to srand(), rand() behaves as if it was seeded
   with srand\fB(1)\fP.

   Each time rand() is seeded with the same seed, it must produce the same sequence of
   values.

   srand() is not guaranteed to be thread-safe.

.SH Parameters

   seed - the seed value

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Notes

   Generally speaking, the pseudo-random number generator should only be seeded once,
   before any calls to rand(), and the start of the program. It should not be
   repeatedly seeded, or reseeded every time you wish to generate a new batch of
   pseudo-random numbers.

   Standard practice is to use the result of a call to time\fB(0)\fP as the seed. However,
   time() returns a time_t value, and time_t is not guaranteed to be an integral type.
   In practice, though, every major implementation defines time_t to be an integral
   type, and this is also what POSIX requires.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <cstdlib>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <ctime>
  
 int main()
 {
     std::srand(std::time(0)); //use current time as seed for random generator
     int random_variable = std::rand();
     std::cout << "Random value on [0 " << RAND_MAX << "]: "
               << random_variable << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Random value on [0 2147483647]: 1373858591

.SH See also

   rand     generates a pseudo-random number
            \fI(function)\fP 
   RAND_MAX maximum possible value generated by std::rand
            (macro constant) 
   reseed   reseeds the per-thread random engine
            \fI(function)\fP 
   C documentation for
   srand
