.TH std::getchar 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::getchar \- std::getchar

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdio>
   int getchar();

   Reads the next character from stdin.

   Equivalent to std::getc(stdin).

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   The obtained character on success or EOF on failure.

   If the failure has been caused by end of file condition, additionally sets the eof
   indicator (see std::feof()) on stdin. If the failure has been caused by some other
   error, sets the error indicator (see std::ferror()) on stdin.

.SH Example

   std::getchar with error checking. Exit program by entering ESC char.

 #include <cctype>
 #include <cstdio>
 #include <cstdlib>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <iostream>

 int main()
 {
     for (int ch; (ch = std::getchar()) != EOF ;) // read/print "abc" from stdin
     {
         if (std::isprint(ch))
             std::cout << static_cast<char>(ch) << '\\n';
         if (ch == 27) // 'ESC' (escape) in ASCII
             return EXIT_SUCCESS;
     }

     // Test reason for reaching EOF.
     if (std::feof(stdin)) // if failure caused by end-of-file condition
         std::cout << "End of file reached\\n";
     else if (std::ferror(stdin)) // if failure caused by some other error
     {
         std::perror("getchar()");
         std::cerr << "getchar() failed in file " << std::quoted(__FILE__)
                   << " at line # " << __LINE__ - 14 << '\\n';
         std::exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
     }

     return EXIT_SUCCESS;
 }

.SH Possible output:

 abc
 a
 b
 c
 ^[

.SH See also

   fgetc gets a character from a file stream
   getc  \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   getchar
