.TH std::basic_ios::basic_ios 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_ios::basic_ios \- std::basic_ios::basic_ios

.SH Synopsis
   protected:                                                     \fB(1)\fP
   basic_ios();
   public:                                                        \fB(2)\fP
   explicit basic_ios( std::basic_streambuf<CharT, Traits>* sb );
   private:                                                            \fI(until C++11)\fP
   basic_ios( const basic_ios& );                                 \fB(3)\fP
   public:                                                             \fI(since C++11)\fP
   basic_ios( const basic_ios& ) = delete;

   Constructs a new std::basic_ios object.

   1) Default constructor. The internal state is not initialized. init() must be called
   before the first use of the object or before destructor, otherwise the behavior is
   undefined.
   2) Initializes the internal state by calling init(sb). The associated stream buffer
   is set to sb.
   3) The copy constructor is
   declared private and not defined
   \fI(until C++11)\fP
   explicitly defined as deleted
   \fI(since C++11)\fP: I/O streams are not CopyConstructible.

.SH Parameters

   sb - stream buffer to associate to

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to             Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 1249 C++98      internal state did not need to be initialized  also needs to be
                       before first use                               initialized
