.TH std::ranges::views::drop_while,std::ranges::drop_while_view 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::views::drop_while,std::ranges::drop_while_view \- std::ranges::views::drop_while,std::ranges::drop_while_view

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <ranges>
   template< ranges::view V, class Pred >

   requires ranges::input_range<V> &&
   std::is_object_v<Pred> &&                                          \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   std::indirect_unary_predicate<const Pred, ranges::iterator_t<V>>

   class drop_while_view : public
   ranges::view_interface<drop_while_view<V, Pred>>
   namespace views {

   inline constexpr /*unspecified*/ drop_while = /*unspecified*/;     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   }
   Call signature
   template< ranges::viewable_range R, class Pred >

   requires /* see below */                                               \fI(since C++20)\fP

   constexpr ranges::view auto drop_while( R&& r, Pred&& pred );
   template< class Pred >                                                 \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr /*range adaptor closure*/ drop_while( Pred&& pred );

   1) A range adaptor that represents view of elements from an underlying sequence,
   beginning at the first element for which the predicate returns false.
   2) Range adaptor objects. The expression views::drop_while(e, f) is
   expression-equivalent to drop_while_view(e, f) for any suitable subexpressions e and
   f.

   drop_while_view models the concepts contiguous_range, random_access_range,
   bidirectional_range, forward_range, input_range, and common_range when the
   underlying view V models respective concepts. It also models sized_range if
   ranges::forward_range<V> and std::sized_sentinel_for<ranges::sentinel_t<V>,
   ranges::iterator_t<V>> are modeled.

  Expression-equivalent

   Expression e is expression-equivalent to expression f, if

     * e and f have the same effects, and
     * either both are constant subexpressions or else neither is a constant
       subexpression, and
     * either both are potentially-throwing or else neither is potentially-throwing
       (i.e. noexcept(e) == noexcept(f)).

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs a drop_while_view
   (C++20)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   base          returns a copy of the underlying (adapted) view
   (C++20)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   pred          returns a reference to the stored predicate
   (C++20)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   begin         returns an iterator to the beginning
   (C++20)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   end           returns an iterator or a sentinel to the end
   (C++20)       \fI(public member function)\fP
         Inherited from std::ranges::view_interface
   empty         Returns whether the derived view is empty. Provided if it satisfies
   (C++20)       sized_range or forward_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   operator bool Returns whether the derived view is not empty. Provided if
   (C++20)       ranges::empty is applicable to it.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   data          Gets the address of derived view's data. Provided if its iterator type
   (C++20)       satisfies contiguous_iterator.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
                 Returns the number of elements in the derived view. Provided if it
   size          satisfies forward_range and its sentinel and iterator type satisfy
   (C++20)       sized_sentinel_for.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   front         Returns the first element in the derived view. Provided if it
   (C++20)       satisfies forward_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   back          Returns the last element in the derived view. Provided if it satisfies
   (C++20)       bidirectional_range and common_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   operator[]    Returns the nth element in the derived view. Provided if it satisfies
   (C++20)       random_access_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP

  Deduction guides

  Helper templates

   template<class T, class Pred>

   inline constexpr bool enable_borrowed_range<std::ranges::drop_while_view<T,  (since
   Pred>> =                                                                     C++20)

   std::ranges::enable_borrowed_range<T>;

   This specialization of std::ranges::enable_borrowed_range makes drop_while_view
   satisfy borrowed_range when the underlying view satisfies it.

.SH Notes

   In order to provide the amortized constant time complexity required by the range
   concept, the result of begin is cached within the drop_while_view object. If the
   underlying range is modified after the first call to begin(), subsequent uses of the
   drop_while_view object might have unintuitive behavior.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cctype>
 #include <iomanip>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <ranges>
 #include <string>
 #include <string_view>

 std::string trim(std::string_view const in)
 {
     auto view
         = in
         | std::views::drop_while(isspace)
         | std::views::reverse
         | std::views::drop_while(isspace)
         | std::views::reverse
         ;
     return {view.begin(), view.end()};
 }

 int main()
 {
     const auto s = trim(" \\f\\n\\t\\r\\vHello, C++20!\\f\\n\\t\\r\\v ");
     std::cout << std::quoted(s) << '\\n';

     static constexpr auto v = {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
     for (int n : v | std::views::drop_while([](int i) { return i < 3; })) {
         std::cout << n << ' ';
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 "Hello, C++20!"
 3 4 5

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to    Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 3494 C++20      drop_while_view was never a it is a borrowed_range if its
                       borrowed_range              underlying view is

.SH See also

   ranges::drop_view a view consisting of elements of another view, skipping the first
   views::drop       N elements
   (C++20)           \fI(class template)\fP (range adaptor object)
