.TH std::list::sort 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::list::sort \- std::list::sort

.SH Synopsis
   void sort();               \fB(1)\fP
   template< class Compare >  \fB(2)\fP
   void sort( Compare comp );

   Sorts the elements in ascending order. The order of equal elements is preserved. The
   first version uses operator< to compare the elements, the second version uses the
   given comparison function comp.

   If an exception is thrown, the order of elements in *this is unspecified.

.SH Parameters

          comparison function object (i.e. an object that satisfies the requirements of
          Compare) which returnstrue if the first argument is less than (i.e. is
          ordered before) the second.

          The signature of the comparison function should be equivalent to the
          following:

           bool cmp(const Type1 &a, const Type2 &b);
   comp -
          While the signature does not need to have const &, the function must not
          modify the objects passed to it and must be able to accept all values of type
          (possibly const) Type1 and Type2 regardless of value category (thus, Type1 &
          is not allowed
          , nor is Type1 unless for Type1 a move is equivalent to a copy
          \fI(since C++11)\fP).
          The types Type1 and Type2 must be such that an object of type
          list<T,Allocator>::const_iterator can be dereferenced and then implicitly
          converted to both of them.

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Complexity

   Approximately N log N comparisons, where N is the number of elements in the list.

.SH Notes

   std::sort requires random access iterators and so cannot be used with list . This
   function also differs from std::sort in that it does not require the element type of
   the list to be swappable, preserves the values of all iterators, and performs a
   stable sort.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <functional>
 #include <list>
  
 std::ostream& operator<<(std::ostream& ostr, const std::list<int>& list)
 {
     for (auto &i : list) {
         ostr << " " << i;
     }
     return ostr;
 }
  
 int main()
 {
     std::list<int> list = { 8,7,5,9,0,1,3,2,6,4 };
  
     std::cout << "before:     " << list << "\\n";
     list.sort();
     std::cout << "ascending:  " << list << "\\n";
     list.sort(std::greater<int>());
     std::cout << "descending: " << list << "\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 before:      8 7 5 9 0 1 3 2 6 4
 ascending:   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
 descending:  9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
