.TH std::basic_ostringstream::str 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_ostringstream::str \- std::basic_ostringstream::str

.SH Synopsis
   std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, Allocator> str() const;               \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, Allocator> str() const&;              \fI(since C++20)\fP
   template< class SAlloc >
   std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, SAlloc> str( const SAlloc& a      \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   ) const;
   std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, Allocator> str() &&;              \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   void str( const std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, Allocator>& s \fB(1)\fP \fB(4)\fP
   );
   template< class SAlloc >                                           \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   void str( const std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, SAlloc>& s );
   void str( std::basic_string<CharT, Traits, Allocator>&& s );       \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   template< class StringViewLike >                                   \fB(7)\fP (since C++26)
   void str( const StringViewLike& t );

   Manages the contents of the underlying string object.

   1) Returns a copy of the underlying string. Equivalent to return rdbuf()->str();.
   2) Returns a copy of the underlying string, using a as allocator. Equivalent to
   return rdbuf()->str(a);.
   3) Returns a string move-constructed from the underlying string. Equivalent to
   return std::move(*rdbuf()).str();.
   4,5) Replaces the contents of the underlying string. Equivalent to rdbuf()->str(s);.
   6) Replaces the contents of the underlying string. Equivalent to
   rdbuf()->str(std::move(s));.
   7) Replaces the contents of the underlying string. Equivalent to rdbuf()->str(t);.
   This overload participates in overload resolution only if is_convertible_v<const T&,
   basic_string_view<charT, traits>> is true.

.SH Parameters

   s - new contents of the underlying string
   t - an object (convertible to std::basic_string_view) to use as the new contents of
       the underlying string
   a - allocator used to construct the returned string

.SH Return value

   1,2) A copy of the underlying string object.
   3) A string move-constructed from the underlying string object.
   4-7) \fI(none)\fP

.SH Notes

   The copy of the underlying string returned by str is a temporary object that will be
   destructed at the end of the expression, so directly calling c_str() on the result
   of str() (for example in auto *ptr = out.str().c_str();) results in a dangling
   pointer.

           Feature-test macro          Value    Std                Feature
   __cpp_lib_sstream_from_string_view 202306L (C++26) Interfacing std::stringstreams
                                                      with std::string_view, \fB(7)\fP

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <sstream>

 int main()
 {
     int n;

     std::istringstream in; // could also use in("1 2")
     in.str("1 2");
     in >> n;
     std::cout << "After reading the first int from \\"1 2\\", the int is "
               << n << ", str() = \\"" << in.str() << "\\"\\n";

     std::ostringstream out("1 2");
     out << 3;
     std::cout << "After writing the int '3' to output stream \\"1 2\\""
               << ", str() = \\"" << out.str() << "\\"\\n";

     std::ostringstream ate("1 2", std::ios_base::ate);
     ate << 3;
     std::cout << "After writing the int '3' to append stream \\"1 2\\""
               << ", str() = \\"" << ate.str() << "\\"\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 After reading the first int from "1 2", the int is 1, str() = "1 2"
 After writing the int '3' to output stream "1 2", str() = "3 2"
 After writing the int '3' to append stream "1 2", str() = "1 23"

.SH See also

   rdbuf returns the underlying raw string device object
         \fI(public member function)\fP
         replaces or obtains a copy of the associated character string
   str   \fI(public member function of std::basic_stringbuf<CharT,Traits,Allocator>)\fP

