.TH std::owner_equal 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::owner_equal \- std::owner_equal

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <memory>
   struct owner_equal;         (since C++26)

   This function object provides owner-based (as opposed to value-based) mixed-type
   equal comparison of both std::weak_ptr and std::shared_ptr. The comparison is such
   that two smart pointers compare equivalent only if they are both empty or if they
   share ownership, even if the values of the raw pointers obtained by get() are
   different (e.g. because they point at different subobjects within the same object).

   1) Owner-based mixed-type equal comparison is not provided for types other than
   std::shared_ptr and std::weak_ptr.
   2) The owner-based mixed-type equal comparison of std::shared_ptr and std::weak_ptr.
   It is the preferred comparison predicate when building unordered associative
   containers with std::shared_ptr and std::weak_ptr as keys together with
   std::owner_hash, that is, std::unordered_map<std::shared_ptr<T>, U, std::owner_hash,
   std::owner_equal> or std::unordered_map<std::weak_ptr<T>, U, std::owner_hash,
   std::owner_equal>.
   3) std::owner_equal deduces the parameter types from the arguments.

.SH Member functions

   operator() compares its arguments using owner-based semantics
              \fI(function)\fP

std::owner_equal::operator()

   template< class T, class U >

   bool operator()( const std::shared_ptr<T>& lhs,                   (since C++26)

                    const std::shared_ptr<U>& rhs ) const noexcept;
   template< class T, class U >

   bool operator()( const std::shared_ptr<T>& lhs,                   (since C++26)

                    const std::weak_ptr<U>& rhs ) const noexcept;
   template< class T, class U >

   bool operator()( const std::weak_ptr<T>& lhs,                     (since C++26)

                    const std::shared_ptr<U>& rhs ) const noexcept;
   template< class T, class U >

   bool operator()( const std::weak_ptr<T>& lhs,                     (since C++26)

                    const std::weak_ptr<U>& rhs ) const noexcept;

   Compares lhs and rhs using owner-based semantics. Effectively calls
   lhs.owner_equal(rhs).

   The equal comparison is an equivalence relation.

   lhs and rhs are equivalent only if they are both empty or share ownership.

.SH Parameters

   lhs, rhs - shared-ownership pointers to compare

.SH Return value

   true if lhs and rhs are both empty or share ownership as determined by the
   owner-based equal comparison, false otherwise.

.SH Notes

           Feature-test macro          Value    Std                Feature
                                                      Enabling the use of
   __cpp_lib_smart_ptr_owner_equality 202306L (C++26) std::shared_ptr and std::weak_ptr
                                                      as keys in unordered associative
                                                      containers

.SH See also

   owner_equal provides owner-based equal comparison of shared pointers
   (C++26)     \fI(public member function of std::shared_ptr<T>)\fP
   owner_equal provides owner-based equal comparison of weak pointers
   (C++26)     \fI(public member function of std::weak_ptr<T>)\fP
