.TH std::chrono::operator<<(std::chrono::time_of_day) 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::operator<<(std::chrono::time_of_day) \- std::chrono::operator<<(std::chrono::time_of_day)

.SH Synopsis
   template< class CharT, class Traits >

   std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>&                                              \fB(1)\fP
   operator<<(std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>& os,

              const std::chrono::time_of_day<std::chrono::hours>& t);
   template< class CharT, class Traits >

   std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>&                                              \fB(2)\fP
   operator<<(std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>& os,

              const std::chrono::time_of_day<std::chrono::minutes>& t);
   template< class CharT, class Traits >

   std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>&                                              \fB(3)\fP
   operator<<(std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>& os,

              const std::chrono::time_of_day<std::chrono::seconds>& t);
   template< class CharT, class Traits, class Rep, class Period >

   std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>&
   operator<<(std::basic_ostream<CharT, Traits>& os,                               \fB(4)\fP

              const std::chrono::time_of_day<std::chrono::duration<Rep, Period>>&
   t);

   Outputs t into the stream os, according to the format string specified by the table
   below.

   Overload 12-hour format 24-hour format
   \fB(1)\fP      "%I%p"         "%H00"
   \fB(2)\fP      "%I:%M%p"      "%H:%M"
   (3-4)    "%I:%M:%S%p"   "%H:%M:%S"

   The meaning of the format specifiers are:

    Format                                  Explanation
   specifier
      %H     Writes the hour (24-hour clock) as a decimal number. If the result is a
             single digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %I     Writes the hour (12-hour clock) as a decimal number. If the result is a
             single digit, it is prefixed with 0.
      %M     Writes the minute as a decimal number. If the result is a single digit, it
             is prefixed with 0.
             Writes the second as a decimal number. If the number of seconds is less
             than 10, the result is prefixed with 0.

             If the precision of the input cannot be exactly represented with seconds,
      %S     then the format is a decimal floating point number with a fixed format and
             a precision matching that of the precision of the input (or to a
             microseconds precision if the conversion to floating point decimal seconds
             cannot be made within 18 fractional digits). The character for the decimal
             point is localized according to the locale.
      %p     Writes the locale's equivalent of the AM/PM designations associated with a
             12-hour clock.

.SH Return value

   os.
