.TH std::scalbn,std::scalbln 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::scalbn,std::scalbln \- std::scalbn,std::scalbln

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float       scalbn( float x, int exp );         \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double      scalbn( double x, int exp );        \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   long double scalbn( long double x, int exp );   \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double      scalbn( Integral x, int exp );      \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   float       scalbln( float x, long exp );       \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double      scalbln( double x, long exp );      \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   long double scalbln( long double x, long exp ); \fB(7)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double      scalbln( Integral x, long exp );    \fB(8)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   1-3,5-7) Multiplies a floating point value x by FLT_RADIX raised to power exp.
   4,8) A set of overloads or a function template accepting an argument of any integral
   type. Equivalent to \fB(2)\fP or \fB(6)\fP (the argument is cast to double).

.SH Parameters

   x   - floating point value
   exp - integer value

.SH Return value

   If no errors occur, x multiplied by FLT_RADIX to the power of arg (x×FLT_RADIXexp
   ) is returned.

   If a range error due to overflow occurs, ±HUGE_VAL, ±HUGE_VALF, or ±HUGE_VALL is
   returned.

   If a range error due to underflow occurs, the correct result (after rounding) is
   returned.

.SH Error handling

   Errors are reported as specified in math_errhandling

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * Unless a range error occurs, FE_INEXACT is never raised (the result is exact)
     * Unless a range error occurs, the current rounding mode is ignored
     * If x is ±0, it is returned, unmodified
     * If x is ±∞, it is returned, unmodified
     * If exp is 0, then x is returned, unmodified
     * If x is NaN, NaN is returned

.SH Notes

   On binary systems (where FLT_RADIX is 2), std::scalbn is equivalent to std::ldexp.

   Although std::scalbn and std::scalbln are specified to perform the operation
   efficiently, on many implementations they are less efficient than multiplication or
   division by a power of two using arithmetic operators.

   The function name stands for "new scalb", where scalb was an older non-standard
   function whose second argument had floating-point type.

   The scalbln function is provided because the factor required to scale from the
   smallest positive floating-point value to the largest finite one may be greater than
   32767, the standard-guaranteed INT_MAX. In particular, for the 80-bit long double,
   the factor is 32828.

   The GNU implementation does not set errno regardless of math_errhandling

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <cerrno>
 #include <cstring>
 #include <cfenv>
  
 #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS ON
 int main()
 {
     std::cout << "scalbn(7, -4) = " << std::scalbn(7, -4) << '\\n'
               << "scalbn(1, -1074) = " << std::scalbn(1, -1074)
               << " (minimum positive subnormal double)\\n"
               << "scalbn(nextafter(1,0), 1024) = "
               << std::scalbn(std::nextafter(1,0), 1024)
               << " (largest finite double)\\n";
     // special values
     std::cout << "scalbn(-0, 10) = " << std::scalbn(-0.0, 10) << '\\n'
               << "scalbn(-Inf, -1) = " << std::scalbn(-INFINITY, -1) << '\\n';
     // error handling
     errno=0; std::feclearexcept(FE_ALL_EXCEPT);
     std::cout << "scalbn(1, 1024) = " << std::scalbn(1, 1024) << '\\n';
     if(errno == ERANGE)
         std::cout << "    errno == ERANGE: " << std::strerror(errno) << '\\n';
     if(std::fetestexcept(FE_OVERFLOW))
         std::cout << "    FE_OVERFLOW raised\\n";
 }

.SH Possible output:

 scalbn(7, -4) = 0.4375
 scalbn(1, -1074) = 4.94066e-324 (minimum positive subnormal double)
 scalbn(nextafter(1,0), 1024) = 1.79769e+308 (largest finite double)
 scalbn(-0, 10) = -0
 scalbn(-Inf, -1) = -inf
 scalbn(1, 1024) = inf
     errno == ERANGE: Numerical result out of range
     FE_OVERFLOW raised

.SH See also

   frexp decomposes a number into significand and a power of 2
         \fI(function)\fP 
   ldexp multiplies a number by 2 raised to a power
         \fI(function)\fP 
   C documentation for
   scalbn
