.TH std::experimental::future::future 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::future::future \- std::experimental::future::future

.SH Synopsis
   future() noexcept;                                                              \fB(1)\fP
   future(std::experimental::future<T>&& f) noexcept;                              \fB(2)\fP
   future(const std::experimental::future<T>&) = delete;                           \fB(3)\fP
   future(std::experimental::future<std::experimental::future<T>> && other)        \fB(4)\fP
   noexcept;

   1) Default constructor. Constructs an empty future object that does not refer to a
   shared state.
   2) Constructs a future object, transferring the shared state held by f, if any.
   After construction, f.valid() is false.
   3) Copy constructor is deleted. future cannot be copied.
   4) Unwrapping constructor. Constructs a future object from the shared state referred
   to by other, if any. If other.valid() == false prior to this call, the constructed
   future object is empty. Otherwise, the resulting future object becomes ready when
   one of the following happens:

     * other and other.get() are both ready. The value or exception from other.get() is
       stored in the shared state associated with the resulting future object.
     * other is ready, but other.get() is invalid. An exception of type
       std::future_error with an error condition of std::future_errc::broken_promise is
       stored in the shared state associated with the resulting future object.

   After this constructor returns, valid() is equal to the value of other.valid() prior
   to this call, and other.valid() == false.

.SH Parameters

   f     - another future object to initialize with
   other - A std::experimental::future object to unwrap

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR      Applied to            Behavior as published            Correct behavior
   LWG 2697 Concurrency TS behavior of unwrapping constructor is    constructs an empty
                           unclear with an invalid future           future

.SH See also

   constructor   constructs the future object
                 \fI(public member function of std::future<T>)\fP
