.TH std::experimental::barrier::arrive_and_wait 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::barrier::arrive_and_wait \- std::experimental::barrier::arrive_and_wait

.SH Synopsis
   void arrive_and_wait();  (concurrency TS)

   Blocks and arrive at the barrier's synchronization point.

   The behavior is undefined if the calling thread is not in the set of participating
   threads of this barrier.

   Calls to arrive_and_wait synchronizes with the start of the completion phase of the
   barrier. The completion of the completion phase synchronizes with the return from
   the call.

   Calls to arrive_and_drop and arrive_and_wait never introduce data races with
   themselves or each other.

.SH Notes

   It is safe for a thread to call either arrive_and_wait() or arrive_and_drop()
   immediately on return from this call. It's not necessary to ensure that all blocked
   threads have exited arrive_and_wait() before a thread calls it again.

   The set of participating threads for a barrier constructed for num_threads threads
   is the first num_threads to arrive at its synchronization point. This set does not
   change from cycle to cycle, except for threads removed from the set due to
   arrive_and_drop() calls.

.SH Exceptions

   Throws nothing.

.SH See also

                   arrive at the synchronization point and remove the current thread
   arrive_and_drop from the set of participating threads
                   \fI(public member function)\fP 
