.TH std::vector::assign 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::vector::assign \- std::vector::assign

.SH Synopsis
   void assign( size_type count, const T& value ); \fB(1)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   template< class InputIt >                       \fB(2)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   void assign( InputIt first, InputIt last );
   void assign( std::initializer_list<T> ilist );  \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                       (constexpr since C++20)

   Replaces the contents of the container.

   1) Replaces the contents with count copies of value value.
   2) Replaces the contents with copies of those in the range [first, last). The
   behavior is undefined if either argument is an iterator into *this.

   This overload has the same effect as overload \fB(1)\fP if InputIt is an     \fI(until C++11)\fP
   integral type.
   This overload participates in overload resolution only if InputIt      \fI(since C++11)\fP
   satisfies LegacyInputIterator.

   3) Replaces the contents with the elements from the initializer list ilist.

   All iterators, pointers and references to the elements of the container are
   invalidated. The past-the-end iterator is also invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   count       - the new size of the container
   value       - the value to initialize elements of the container with
   first, last - the range to copy the elements from
   ilist       - initializer list to copy the values from

.SH Complexity

   1) Linear in count.
   2) Linear in distance between first and last.
   3) Linear in ilist.size().

.SH Example

   The following code uses assign to add several characters to a std::vector<char>:


// Run this code

 #include <vector>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<char> characters;

     auto print_vector = [&]()
     {
         for (char c : characters)
             std::cout << c << ' ';
         std::cout << '\\n';
     };

     characters.assign(5, 'a');
     print_vector();

     const std::string extra(6, 'b');
     characters.assign(extra.begin(), extra.end());
     print_vector();

     characters.assign({'C', '+', '+', '1', '1'});
     print_vector();
 }

.SH Output:

 a a a a a
 b b b b b b
 C + + 1 1

.SH See also

   constructor   constructs the vector
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
