.TH std::pair<T1,T2>::pair 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::pair<T1,T2>::pair \- std::pair<T1,T2>::pair

.SH Synopsis
pair();                             \fI(until C++11)\fP
                                    \fI(since C++11)\fP
constexpr pair();                   (conditionally
                                    explicit)
pair( const T1& x, const                           \fI(until C++11)\fP
T2& y );
                                                   \fI(since C++11)\fP
pair( const T1& x, const                           \fI(until C++14)\fP
T2& y );                                           (conditionally
                                                   explicit)
constexpr pair( const T1&                          \fI(since C++14)\fP
x, const T2& y );                                  (conditionally
                                                   explicit)
template< class U1, class                                         \fI(since C++11)\fP
U2 >                                                              \fI(until C++14)\fP
pair( U1&& x, U2&& y );                                           (conditionally
                                                                  explicit)
template< class U1, class                                         \fI(since C++14)\fP
U2 >                                                              (conditionally
constexpr pair( U1&& x,                                           explicit)
U2&& y );
template< class U1, class
U2 >                                                                             \fI(until C++11)\fP
pair( const pair<U1, U2>& p
);
template< class U1, class                                                        \fI(since C++11)\fP
U2 >                                                                             \fI(until C++14)\fP
pair( const pair<U1, U2>& p                                                      (conditionally
);                                                                               explicit)
template< class U1, class                                                        \fI(since C++14)\fP
U2 >                                                                             (conditionally
constexpr pair( const                                                            explicit)
pair<U1, U2>& p );          \fB(1)\fP
template< class U1, class                                                                       \fI(since C++11)\fP
U2 >                            \fB(2)\fP                                                             \fI(until C++14)\fP
pair( pair<U1, U2>&& p );                                                                       (conditionally
                                                                                                explicit)
template< class U1, class                                                                       \fI(since C++14)\fP
U2 >                                \fB(3)\fP                                                         (conditionally
constexpr pair( pair<U1,                                                                        explicit)
U2>&& p );
template< class... Args1,
class... Args2 >                                   \fB(4)\fP

pair(                                                                                                          (since
std::piecewise_construct_t,                                                                                    C++11)
std::tuple<Args1...>                                                                                           (until
first_args,                                                                                                    C++20)
                                                                  \fB(5)\fP
std::tuple<Args2...>
second_args );
template< class... Args1,
class... Args2 >                                                                 \fB(6)\fP

constexpr pair(
std::piecewise_construct_t,                                                                                    (since
std::tuple<Args1...>                                                                                           C++20)
first_args,

std::tuple<Args2...>
second_args );
pair( const pair& p ) =                                                                         \fB(7)\fP
default;
pair( pair&& p ) = default;                                                                     \fB(8)\fP            (since
                                                                                                               C++11)

   Constructs a new pair.

   1) Default constructor. Value-initializes both elements of the pair, first and
   second.

     * This constructor participates in overload resolution if and only
       if std::is_default_constructible_v<first_type> and
       std::is_default_constructible_v<second_type> are both true.        \fI(since C++11)\fP
     * This constructor is explicit if and only if either first_type or
       second_type is not implicitly default-constructible.

   2) Initializes first with x and second with y.

     * This constructor participates in overload resolution if and only
       if std::is_copy_constructible_v<first_type> and
       std::is_copy_constructible_v<second_type> are both true.           \fI(since C++11)\fP
     * This constructor is explicit if and only if
       std::is_convertible_v<const first_type&, first_type> is false or
       std::is_convertible_v<const second_type&, second_type> is false.

   3) Initializes first with std::forward<U1>(x) and second with std::forward<U2>(y).

     * This constructor participates in overload resolution if and only if
       std::is_constructible_v<first_type, U1&&> and
       std::is_constructible_v<second_type, U2&&> are both true.
     * This constructor is explicit if and only if std::is_convertible_v<U1&&,
       first_type> is false or std::is_convertible_v<U2&&, second_type> is false.

   4) Initializes first with p.first and second with p.second.

     * This constructor participates in overload resolution if and only
       if std::is_constructible_v<first_type, const U1&> and
       std::is_constructible_v<second_type, const U2&> are both true.     \fI(since C++11)\fP
     * This constructor is explicit if and only if
       std::is_convertible_v<const U1&, first_type> is false or
       std::is_convertible_v<const U2&, second_type> is false.

   5) Initializes first with std::forward<U1>(p.first) and second with
   std::forward<U2>(p.second).

     * This constructor participates in overload resolution if and only if
       std::is_constructible_v<first_type, U1&&> and
       std::is_constructible_v<second_type, U2&&> are both true.
     * This constructor is explicit if and only if std::is_convertible_v<U1&&,
       first_type> is false or std::is_convertible_v<U2&&, second_type> is false.

   6) Forwards the elements of first_args to the constructor of first and forwards the
   elements of second_args to the constructor of second. This is the only non-default
   constructor that can be used to create a pair of non-copyable non-movable types.

   7) Copy constructor is defaulted, and is constexpr if copying of both elements
   satisfies the requirements on constexpr functions.

   8) Move constructor is defaulted, and is constexpr if moving of both elements
   satisfies the requirements on constexpr functions.

.SH Parameters

   x           - value to initialize the first element of this pair
   y           - value to initialize the second element of this pair
   p           - pair of values used to initialize both elements of this pair
   first_args  - tuple of constructor arguments to initialize the first element of this
                 pair
   second_args - tuple of constructor arguments to initialize the second element of
                 this pair

.SH Exceptions

   Does not throw exceptions unless one of the specified operations (e.g. constructor
   of an element) throws.

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to        Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   N4387    C++11      some constructors were              constructors made
                       implicit-only, preventing some uses conditionally-explicit
   LWG 2510 C++11      default constructor was implicit    made conditionally-explicit

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <utility>
 #include <string>
 #include <complex>
 #include <tuple>
 #include <iostream>

 int main()
 {
     std::pair<int, float> p1;
     std::cout << "Value-initialized: "
               << p1.first << ", " << p1.second << '\\n';

     std::pair<int, double> p2(42, 0.123);
     std::cout << "Initialized with two values: "
               << p2.first << ", " << p2.second << '\\n';

     std::pair<char, int> p4(p2);
     std::cout << "Implicitly converted: "
               << p4.first << ", " << p4.second << '\\n';

     std::pair<std::complex<double>, std::string> p6(
                     std::piecewise_construct,
                     std::forward_as_tuple(0.123, 7.7),
                     std::forward_as_tuple(10, 'a'));
     std::cout << "Piecewise constructed: "
               << p6.first << ", " << p6.second << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 Value-initialized: 0, 0
 Initialized with two values: 42, 0.123
 Implicitly converted: *, 0
 Piecewise constructed: (0.123,7.7), aaaaaaaaaa

.SH See also

   make_pair creates a pair object of type, defined by the argument types
             \fI(function template)\fP
