.TH std::istreambuf_iterator::istreambuf_iterator 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::istreambuf_iterator::istreambuf_iterator \- std::istreambuf_iterator::istreambuf_iterator

.SH Synopsis
   istreambuf_iterator() throw();                       (until
                                                        C++11)
   constexpr istreambuf_iterator() noexcept;            (since
                                                        C++11)
   constexpr istreambuf_iterator(                   \fB(2)\fP (since
   std::default_sentinel_t ) noexcept;                  C++20)
   istreambuf_iterator(                                         (until
   std::basic_istream<CharT,Traits>& is )                       C++11)
   throw();
   istreambuf_iterator(                                         (since
   std::basic_istream<CharT,Traits>& is )                       C++11)
   noexcept;                                    \fB(1)\fP
   istreambuf_iterator(                                                 (until
   std::basic_streambuf<CharT,Traits>* s )                              C++11)
   throw();                                         \fB(3)\fP
   istreambuf_iterator(                                                 (since
   std::basic_streambuf<CharT,Traits>* s )                              C++11)
   noexcept;                                            \fB(4)\fP
   istreambuf_iterator( const /* proxy */& p )                                  (until
   throw();                                                                     C++11)
   istreambuf_iterator( const /* proxy */& p )                  \fB(5)\fP             (since
   noexcept;                                                                    C++11)
   istreambuf_iterator( const                                           \fB(6)\fP     (since
   istreambuf_iterator& ) noexcept = default;                                   C++11)

   1,2) Constructs an end-of-stream iterator.
   3) Initializes the iterator and stores the value of is.rdbuf() in a data member. If
   is.rdbuf() is null, then end-of-stream iterator is constructed.
   4) Initializes the iterator and stores the value of s in a data member. If s is
   null, then end-of-stream iterator is constructed.
   5) Effectively call \fB(3)\fP with the streambuf_type* pointer p holds.
   6) The copy constructor is trivial and explicitly defaulted.

   The copy constructor is effectively implicitly declared and not        \fI(until C++11)\fP
   guaranteed to be trivial.

.SH Parameters

   is - stream to obtain the stream buffer from
   s  - stream buffer to initialize the iterator with
   p  - object of the implementation-defined proxy type
