.TH std::ranges::slide_view::iterator::iterator 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::slide_view::iterator::iterator \- std::ranges::slide_view::iterator::iterator

.SH Synopsis
   /*iterator*/();                                               \fB(1)\fP (since C++23)
   constexpr /*iterator*/( /*iterator*/<!Const> i )

       requires Const &&                                         \fB(2)\fP (since C++23)

           std::convertible_to<ranges::iterator_t<V>,
   ranges::iterator_t<Base>>
   private:

   constexpr /*iterator*/( ranges::iterator_t<Base> current,     \fB(3)\fP (exposition only*)
                           ranges::range_difference_t<Base> n )

       requires (!/*slide-caches-first*/<Base>);
   private:

   constexpr /*iterator*/( ranges::iterator_t<Base> current,
                           ranges::iterator_t<Base> last_ele,    \fB(4)\fP (exposition only*)
                           ranges::range_difference_t<Base> n )

       requires /*slide-caches-first*/<Base>;

   Construct an iterator.

   1) Default constructor. Value-initializes the underlying data members:
     * current_ with ranges::iterator_t<Base>(),
     * last_ele_ with ranges::iterator_t<Base>() (note that this member may not be
       present),
     * n_ with 0.
   2) Conversion from /*iterator*/<false> to /*iterator*/<true>. Initializes the
   underlying data members:
     * current_ with std::move(i.current_),
     * n_ with i.n_.
   Note that /*iterator*/<true> can only be formed when Base models
   /*slide-caches-nothing*/, in which case last_ele_ is not present.
   3) A private constructor which is used by ranges::slide_view::begin and
   ranges::slide_view::end. This constructor is not accessible to users. Initializes
   the underlying data members:
     * current_ with current,
     * n_ with n.
   Note that this overload can only be present if last_ele_ is not present.
   4) A private constructor which is used by ranges::slide_view::begin and
   ranges::slide_view::end. This constructor is not accessible to users. Initializes
   the underlying data members:
     * current_ with current,
     * last_ele_ with last_ele (note that this data member is present due to
       /*slide-caches-first*/<Base> requirement),
     * n_ with n.

.SH Parameters

   i        - an /*iterator*/<false>
   current  - an iterator to current element of slide_view
   last_ele - an iterator to last element of slide_view
   n        - the slide window width of slide_view

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
