.TH std::filesystem::canonical,std::filesystem::weakly_canonical 3 "2019.08.27" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::filesystem::canonical,std::filesystem::weakly_canonical \- std::filesystem::canonical,std::filesystem::weakly_canonical

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <filesystem>
   path canonical( const std::filesystem::path& p );      \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   path canonical( const std::filesystem::path& p,        \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   std::error_code& ec );
   path weakly_canonical(const std::filesystem::path& p); \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   path weakly_canonical(const std::filesystem::path& p,  \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   std::error_code& ec);

   1-2) Converts path p to a canonical absolute path, i.e. an absolute path that has no
   dot, dot-dot elements or symbolic links in its generic format representation. If p
   is not an absolute path, the function behaves as if it is first made absolute by
   std::filesystem::absolute(p). The path p must exist.
   3-4) Returns a path composed by operator/= from the result of calling canonical()
   with a path argument composed of the leading elements of p that exist (as determined
   by status(p) or status(p, ec)), if any, followed by the elements of p that do not
   exist, if any. The resulting path is in normal form.

.SH Parameters

   p  - a path which may be absolute or relative; for canonical it must be an existing
        path
   ec - error code to store error status to

.SH Return value

   1-2) An absolute path that resolves to the same file as
   std::filesystem::absolute(p).
   3-4) A normal path of the form canonical(x)/y, where x is a path composed of the
   longest leading sequence of elements in p that exist, and y is a path composed of
   the remaining trailing non-existent elements of p

.SH Exceptions

   The overload that does not take a std::error_code& parameter throws filesystem_error
   on underlying OS API errors, constructed with p as the first path argument and the
   OS error code as the error code argument. The overload taking a std::error_code&
   parameter sets it to the OS API error code if an OS API call fails, and executes
   ec.clear() if no errors occur. Any overload not marked noexcept may throw
   std::bad_alloc if memory allocation fails.

.SH Notes

   The function canonical() is modeled after the POSIX realpath.

   The function weakly_canonical() was introduced to simplify operational semantics of
   relative().

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to          Behavior as published          Correct behavior
   LWG 2956 C++17      canonical has a spurious base parameter removed

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <filesystem>
 namespace fs = std::filesystem;
 int main()
 {
     fs::path p = fs::path("..") / ".." / "AppData";
     std::cout << "Current path is " << fs::current_path() << '\\n'
               << "Canonical path for " << p << " is " << fs::canonical(p) << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Current path is "C:\\Users\\abcdef\\AppData\\Local\\Temp"
 Canonical path for "..\\..\\AppData" is "C:\\Users\\abcdef\\AppData"

.SH See also

   path      represents a path
   \fI(C++17)\fP   \fI(class)\fP
   absolute  composes an absolute path
   \fI(C++17)\fP   \fI(function)\fP
   relative  composes a relative path
   proximate \fI(function)\fP
   \fI(C++17)\fP
