.TH std::lerp 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::lerp \- std::lerp

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   constexpr float lerp( float a, float b, float t ) noexcept;        \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr double lerp( double a, double b, double t ) noexcept;    \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr long double lerp( long double a, long double b, long     \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   double t ) noexcept;
   constexpr Promoted lerp( Arithmetic1 a, Arithmetic2 b, Arithmetic3 \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   t ) noexcept;

   1-3) Computes the linear interpolation between a and b, if the parameter t is inside
   [0, 1] (the linear extrapolation otherwise), i.e. the result of
   \\(a+t(b−a)\\)a+t(b−a) with accounting for floating-point calculation imprecision.
   4) A set of overloads or a function template for all combinations of arguments of
   arithmetic type not covered by 1-3). If any argument has integral type, it is cast
   to double. If any other argument is long double, then the return type is long
   double, otherwise it is double.

.SH Parameters

   a, b, t - values of floating-point or integral types

.SH Return value

   \\(a+t(b−a)\\)a+t(b−a)

   When isfinite(a) and isfinite(b), the following properties are guaranteed:

     * If t == 0, the result is equal to a.
     * If t == 1, the result is equal to b.
     * If t >= 0 && t <= 1, the result is finite.
     * If isfinite(t) && a == b, the result is equal to a.
     * If isfinite(t) || (b - a != 0 and isinf(t)), the result is not NaN.

   Let CMP(x,y) be 1 if x > y, -1 if x < y, and 0 otherwise. For any t1 and t2, the
   product of CMP(lerp(a, b, t2), lerp(a, b, t1)), CMP(t2, t1), and CMP(b, a) is
   non-negative. (That is, lerp is monotonic.)

.SH Notes

   lerp is available in the global namespace when <math.h> is included, even if it is
   not a part of C.

   Feature testing macro: __cpp_lib_interpolate

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <cmath>
 #include <cassert>
 #include <iostream>

 float naive_lerp(float a, float b, float t)
 {
     return a + t * (b - a);
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::cout << std::boolalpha;

     const float a = 1e8f, b = 1.0f;
     const float midpoint = std::lerp(a, b, 0.5f);

     std::cout << "a = " << a << ", " << "b = " << b << '\\n'
               << "midpoint = " << midpoint << '\\n';

     std::cout << "std::lerp is exact: "
               << (a == std::lerp(a, b, 0.0f)) << ' '
               << (b == std::lerp(a, b, 1.0f)) << '\\n';

     std::cout << "naive_lerp is exact: "
               << (a == naive_lerp(a, b, 0.0f)) << ' '
               << (b == naive_lerp(a, b, 1.0f)) << '\\n';

     std::cout << "std::lerp(a, b, 1.0f) = " << std::lerp(a, b, 1.0f) << '\\n'
               << "naive_lerp(a, b, 1.0f) = " << naive_lerp(a, b, 1.0f) << '\\n';

     assert(not std::isnan(std::lerp(a, b, INFINITY))); // lerp here can be -inf

     std::cout << "Extrapolation demo, given std::lerp(5, 10, t):\\n";

     for (auto t{-2.0}; t <= 2.0; t += 0.5)
         std::cout << std::lerp(5.0, 10.0, t) << ' ';

     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 a = 1e+08, b = 1
 midpoint = 5e+07
 std::lerp is exact?: true true
 naive_lerp is exact?: true false
 std::lerp(a, b, 1.0f) = 1
 naive_lerp(a, b, 1.0f) = 0
 Extrapolation demo, given std::lerp(5, 10, t):
 -5 -2.5 0 2.5 5 7.5 10 12.5 15

.SH See also

   midpoint midpoint between two numbers or pointers
   (C++20)  \fI(function template)\fP
