.TH std::experimental::filesystem::remove,std::experimental::filesystem::remove_all 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::filesystem::remove,std::experimental::filesystem::remove_all \- std::experimental::filesystem::remove,std::experimental::filesystem::remove_all

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/filesystem>
   bool remove(const path& p);                               \fB(1)\fP (filesystem TS)
   bool remove(const path& p, error_code& ec);
   std::uintmax_t remove_all(const path& p);                 \fB(2)\fP (filesystem TS)
   std::uintmax_t remove_all(const path& p, error_code& ec);

   1) The file or empty directory identified by the path p is deleted as if by the
   POSIX remove. Symlinks are not followed (symlink is removed, not its target)
   2) Deletes the contents of p (if it is a directory) and the contents of all its
   subdirectories, recursively, then deletes p itself as if by repeatedly applying the
   POSIX remove. Symlinks are not followed (symlink is removed, not its target)

.SH Parameters

   p  - path to delete
   ec - out-parameter for error reporting in the non-throwing overload

.SH Return value

   1) true if the file was deleted, false if it did not exist. The overload that takes
   error_code& argument returns false on errors.
   2) Returns the number of files and directories that were deleted (which may be zero
   if p did not exist to begin with). The overload that takes error_code& argument
   returns static_cast<std::uintmax_t>(-1) on error.

.SH Exceptions

   The overload that does not take a error_code& parameter throws filesystem_error on
   underlying OS API errors, constructed with p as the first argument and the OS error
   code as the error code argument. std::bad_alloc may be thrown if memory allocation
   fails. The overload taking a error_code& parameter sets it to the OS API error code
   if an OS API call fails, and executes ec.clear() if no errors occur. This overload
   has
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept


.SH Notes

   On POSIX systems, this function typically calls unlink and rmdir as needed, on
   Windows RemoveDirectoryW and DeleteFileW.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <cstdint>
 #include <experimental/filesystem>
 namespace fs = std::experimental::filesystem;
 int main()
 {
     fs::path dir = fs::temp_directory_path();
     fs::create_directories(dir / "abcdef/example");
     std::uintmax_t n = fs::remove_all(dir / "abcdef");
     std::cout << "Deleted " << n << " files or directories\\n";
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Deleted 2 files or directories

.SH See also

   remove erases a file
          \fI(function)\fP

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept

.SH Hidden categories:

     * Pages with unreviewed unconditional noexcept template
     * Pages with unreviewed noexcept template
