.TH std::chrono::sys_info 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::sys_info \- std::chrono::sys_info

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <chrono>
   struct sys_info;            \fI(since C++20)\fP

   The class sys_info describes time zone information associated with a time zone at a
   particular point in time (represented as either a std::chrono::sys_time or a
   std::chrono::local_time). This is a low-level data structure typically not used
   directly by user code.

.SH Member objects

   Member object Type
   begin, end    std::chrono::sys_seconds
   offset        std::chrono::seconds
   save          std::chrono::minutes
   abbrev        std::string

   The begin and end data members indicate the range - [begin, end) - in which the
   offset and abbrev are in effect for the time zone associated with this sys_info.

   The offset and abbrev data member indicate the UTC offset and time zone
   abbreviation, respectively, in effect for the associated time zone and
   std::chrono::time_point. Note that time zone abbreviations are not unique.

   The save data member, if nonzero, indicates that the time zone is on daylight saving
   time at the specified time point. In this case, offset - save is a suggestion of
   what offset this time zone might use if it were off daylight saving time. However,
   this information is not authoritative: the only way to ascertain the actual offset
   is to query the time zone with a time point that is actually off daylight savings
   time (i.e. returns a sys_info such that save == 0min).

  Nonmember functions

   operator<< outputs a sys_info into a stream
   (C++20)    \fI(function template)\fP

.SH Helper classes

   std::formatter<std::chrono::sys_info> specialization of std::formatter that formats
   (C++20)                               a sys_info according to the provided format
                                         \fI(class template specialization)\fP
