.TH std::basic_string::append 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_string::append \- std::basic_string::append

.SH Synopsis
basic_string& append(                (until
size_type count, CharT ch );         C++20)
constexpr basic_string&              (since
append( size_type count,             C++20)
CharT ch );
basic_string& append( const                 (until
basic_string& str );                        C++20)
constexpr basic_string&                     (since
append( const basic_string&                 C++20)
str );
basic_string& append( const
basic_string& str,                                 (until
                                                   C++14)
size_type pos, size_type
count );
basic_string& append( const                        (since
basic_string& str,                                 C++14)
                                                   (until
size_type pos, size_type                           C++20)
count = npos );
constexpr basic_string&
append( const basic_string&
str,                                               (since
                                                   C++20)
    size_type pos, size_type
count = npos );
basic_string& append( const                               (until
CharT* s, size_type count );                              C++20)
constexpr basic_string&                                   (since
append( const CharT* s,                                   C++20)
size_type count );
basic_string& append( const                                      (until
CharT* s );                                                      C++20)
constexpr basic_string&                                          (since
append( const CharT* s );                                        C++20)
template< class InputIt >
basic_string& append(        \fB(1)\fP                                        (until
InputIt first, InputIt last                                             C++20)
);
template< class InputIt >        \fB(2)\fP
constexpr basic_string&                                                 (since
append( InputIt first,               \fB(3)\fP                                C++20)
InputIt last );
basic_string& append(                                                          (since
std::initializer_list<CharT>                                                   C++11)
ilist );                                                                       (until
                                                                               C++20)
constexpr basic_string&
append(                                                                        (since
std::initializer_list<CharT>                \fB(4)\fP                                C++20)
ilist );
template < class T >                                                                  (since
basic_string& append( const                        \fB(5)\fP                                C++17)
T& t );                                                                               (until
                                                          \fB(6)\fP                         C++20)
template < class T >                                                                  (since
constexpr basic_string&                                                               C++20)
append( const T& t );
template < class T >                                             \fB(7)\fP

basic_string& append( const                                                                  (since
T& t,                                                                                        C++17)
                                                                        \fB(8)\fP                  (until
                                                                                             C++20)
size_type pos, size_type
count = npos );                                                                \fB(9)\fP
template < class T >

constexpr basic_string&
append( const T& t,                                                                          (since
                                                                                             C++20)

    size_type pos, size_type
count = npos );

   Appends additional characters to the string.

   1) Appends count copies of character ch
   2) Appends string str
   3) Appends a substring [pos, pos+count) of str. If the requested substring lasts
   past the end of the string, or if count == npos, the appended substring is [pos,
   size()). If pos > str.size(), std::out_of_range is thrown.
   4) Appends characters in the range [s, s + count). This range can contain null
   characters.
   5) Appends the null-terminated character string pointed to by s. The length of the
   string is determined by the first null character using Traits::length(s).
   6) Appends characters in the range [first, last).

   This overload has the same effect as overload \fB(1)\fP if InputIt is an     \fI(until C++11)\fP
   integral type.
   This overload only participates in overload resolution if InputIt      \fI(since C++11)\fP
   qualifies as an LegacyInputIterator

   7) Appends characters from the initializer list ilist.
   8) Implicitly converts t to a string view sv as if by std::basic_string_view<CharT,
   Traits> sv = t;, then appends all characters from sv as if by append(sv.data(),
   sv.size()). This overload only participates in overload resolution if
   std::is_convertible_v<const T&, std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>> is true and
   std::is_convertible_v<const T&, const CharT*> is false.
   9) Implicitly converts t to a string view sv as if by std::basic_string_view<CharT,
   Traits> sv = t;, then appends the characters from the subview [pos, pos+count) of
   sv. If the requested subview extends past the end of sv, or if count == npos, the
   appended subview is [pos, sv.size()). If pos >= sv.size(), std::out_of_range is
   thrown. This overload only participates in overload resolution if
   std::is_convertible_v<const T&, std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>> is true and
   std::is_convertible_v<const T&, const CharT*> is false.

.SH Parameters

   count       - number of characters to append
   pos         - the index of the first character to append
   ch          - character value to append
   first, last - range of characters to append
   str         - string to append
   s           - pointer to the character string to append
   ilist       - initializer list with the characters to append
   t           - object convertible to std::basic_string_view with the characters to
                 append

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Complexity

   There are no standard complexity guarantees, typical implementations behave similar
   to std::vector::insert.

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown for any reason, this function has no effect (strong
   exception guarantee).
   \fI(since C++11)\fP

   If the operation would result in size() > max_size(), throws std::length_error.

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to           Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 2946 C++17      string_view overload causes ambiguity in  avoided by making it a
                       some cases                                template

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <string>
 #include <iostream>

 int main() {
     std::basic_string<char> str = "string";
     const char* cptr = "C-string";
     const char carr[] = "Two and one";

     std::string output;

     // 1) Append a char 3 times.
     // Notice, this is the only overload accepting chars.
     output.append(3, '*');
     std::cout << "1) " << output << "\\n";

     //  2) Append a whole string
     output.append(str);
     std::cout << "2) " << output << "\\n";

     // 3) Append part of a string (last 3 letters, in this case)
     output.append(str, 3, 3);
     std::cout << "3) " << output << "\\n";

     // 4) Append part of a C-string
     // Notice, because `append` returns *this, we can chain calls together
     output.append(1, ' ').append(carr, 4);
     std::cout << "4) " << output << "\\n";

     // 5) Append a whole C-string
     output.append(cptr);
     std::cout << "5) " << output << "\\n";

     // 6) Append range
     output.append(&carr[3], std::end(carr));
     std::cout << "6) " << output << "\\n";

     // 7) Append initializer list
     output.append({ ' ', 'l', 'i', 's', 't' });
     std::cout << "7) " << output << "\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 1) ***
 2) ***string
 3) ***stringing
 4) ***stringing Two
 5) ***stringing Two C-string
 6) ***stringing Two C-string and one
 7) ***stringing Two C-string and one list

.SH See also

   operator+= appends characters to the end
              \fI(public member function)\fP
   strcat     concatenates two strings
              \fI(function)\fP
   strncat    concatenates a certain amount of characters of two strings
              \fI(function)\fP
   wcscat     appends a copy of one wide string to another
              \fI(function)\fP
              appends a certain amount of wide characters from one wide string to
   wcsncat    another
              \fI(function)\fP
