.TH std::basic_istream::seekg 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_istream::seekg \- std::basic_istream::seekg

.SH Synopsis
   basic_istream& seekg( pos_type pos );
   basic_istream& seekg( off_type off, std::ios_base::seekdir dir);

   Sets input position indicator of the current associated streambuf object. In case of
   failure, calls setstate(std::ios_base::failbit).

   Before doing anything else, seekg clears eofbit. \fI(since C++11)\fP

   seekg behaves as UnformattedInputFunction, except that gcount() is not affected.
   After constructing and checking the sentry object,

   1) sets the input position indicator to absolute (relative to the beginning of the
   file) value pos. Specifically, executes rdbuf()->pubseekpos(pos, std::ios_base::in)
   (pubseekpos, in turn, calls seekpos of the specific buffer, such as
   filebuf::seekpos, stringbuf::seekpos, or strstreambuf::seekpos)
   2) sets the input position indicator to position off, relative to position, defined
   by dir. Specifically, executes rdbuf()->pubseekoff(off, dir, std::ios_base::in).

.SH Parameters

   pos - absolute position to set the input position indicator to.
   off - relative position (positive or negative) to set the input position indicator
         to.
         defines base position to apply the relative offset to. It can be one of the
         following constants:

   dir - Constant Explanation
         beg      the beginning of a stream
         end      the ending of a stream
         cur      the current position of stream position indicator

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Exceptions

   failure if an error occurred (the error state flag is not goodbit) and exceptions()
   is set to throw for that state.

   If an internal operation throws an exception, it is caught and badbit is set. If
   exceptions() is set for badbit, the exception is rethrown.

.SH Notes

   seekg(n) is not necessarily equivalent to seekg(n, ios::beg).

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
 #include <sstream>

 int main()
 {
     std::string str = "Hello, world";
     std::istringstream in(str);
     std::string word1, word2;

     in >> word1;
     in.seekg(0); // rewind
     in >> word2;

     std::cout << "word1 = " << word1 << '\\n'
               << "word2 = " << word2 << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 word1 = Hello,
 word2 = Hello,

.SH See also

   tellg      returns the input position indicator
              \fI(public member function)\fP
   tellp      returns the output position indicator
              \fI(public member function of std::basic_ostream<CharT,Traits>)\fP
   seekp      sets the output position indicator
              \fI(public member function of std::basic_ostream<CharT,Traits>)\fP
   pubseekpos invokes seekpos()
              \fI(public member function of std::basic_streambuf<CharT,Traits>)\fP
   seekpos    repositions the file position, using absolute addressing
   \fB[virtual]\fP  \fI(virtual protected member function of std::basic_filebuf<CharT,Traits>)\fP
              repositions the next pointer in the input sequence, output sequence, or
   seekpos    both using absolute addressing
   \fB[virtual]\fP  \fI\fI(virtual protected member function\fP of\fP
              std::basic_stringbuf<CharT,Traits,Allocator>)
   seekpos    repositions the next pointer in the input sequence, output sequence, or
   \fB[virtual]\fP  both using absolute addressing
              \fI(virtual protected member function of std::strstreambuf)\fP
   pubseekoff invokes seekoff()
              \fI(public member function of std::basic_streambuf<CharT,Traits>)\fP
   seekoff    repositions the file position, using relative addressing
   \fB[virtual]\fP  \fI(virtual protected member function of std::basic_filebuf<CharT,Traits>)\fP
              repositions the next pointer in the input sequence, output sequence, or
   seekoff    both, using relative addressing
   \fB[virtual]\fP  \fI\fI(virtual protected member function\fP of\fP
              std::basic_stringbuf<CharT,Traits,Allocator>)
   seekoff    repositions the next pointer in the input sequence, output sequence, or
   \fB[virtual]\fP  both, using relative addressing
              \fI(virtual protected member function of std::strstreambuf)\fP
