.TH std::is_default_constructible,std::is_trivially_default_constructible, 3 "2022.07.31" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::is_default_constructible,std::is_trivially_default_constructible, \- std::is_default_constructible,std::is_trivially_default_constructible,

.SH Synopsis

   Defined in header <type_traits>
   template< class T >                        \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   struct is_default_constructible;
   template< class T >                        \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   struct is_trivially_default_constructible;
   template< class T >                        \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   struct is_nothrow_default_constructible;

   1) If std::is_constructible<T>::value is true, provides the member constant value
   equal to true, otherwise value is false.
   2) If std::is_trivially_constructible<T>::value is true, provides the member
   constant value equal to true, otherwise value is false.
   3) If std::is_nothrow_constructible<T>::value is true, provides the member constant
   value equal to true, otherwise value is false.

   T shall be a complete type, (possibly cv-qualified) void, or an array of unknown
   bound. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

   If an instantiation of a template above depends, directly or indirectly, on an
   incomplete type, and that instantiation could yield a different result if that type
   were hypothetically completed, the behavior is undefined.

   The behavior of a program that adds specializations for any of the templates
   described on this page is undefined.

  Helper variable templates

   template< class T >
   inline constexpr bool is_default_constructible_v =                     \fI(since C++17)\fP
   is_default_constructible<T>::value;
   template< class T >
   inline constexpr bool is_trivially_default_constructible_v =           \fI(since C++17)\fP
   is_trivially_default_constructible<T>::value;
   template< class T >
   inline constexpr bool is_nothrow_default_constructible_v =             \fI(since C++17)\fP
   is_nothrow_default_constructible<T>::value;

Inherited from std::integral_constant

.SH Member constants

   value    true if T is default-constructible , false otherwise
   \fB[static]\fP \fI(public static member constant)\fP

.SH Member functions

   operator bool converts the object to bool, returns value
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator()    returns value
   \fI(C++14)\fP       \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Member types

   Type       Definition
   value_type bool
   type       std::integral_constant<bool, value>

.SH Possible implementation

   template< class T>
   struct is_default_constructible : std::is_constructible<T> {};

   template< class T>
   struct is_trivially_default_constructible : std::is_trivially_constructible<T> {};

   template< class T>
   struct is_nothrow_default_constructible : std::is_nothrow_constructible<T> {};

.SH Notes

   In many implementations, is_nothrow_default_constructible also checks if the
   destructor throws because it is effectively noexcept(T()). Same applies to
   is_trivially_default_constructible, which, in these implementations, also requires
   that the destructor is trivial: GCC bug 51452, LWG issue 2116.

   std::is_default_constructible<T> does not test that T x; would compile; it attempts
   direct-initialization with an empty argument list (see std::is_constructible). Thus,
   std::is_default_constructible_v<const int> and std::is_default_constructible_v<const
   int[10]> are true.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <type_traits>

 struct Ex1 {
     std::string str; // member has a non-trivial default ctor
 };
 struct Ex2 {
     int n;
     Ex2() = default; // trivial and non-throwing
 };

 int main() {
     std::cout << std::boolalpha << "Ex1 is default-constructible? "
               << std::is_default_constructible<Ex1>::value << '\\n'
               << "Ex1 is trivially default-constructible? "
               << std::is_trivially_default_constructible<Ex1>::value << '\\n'
               << "Ex2 is trivially default-constructible? "
               << std::is_trivially_default_constructible<Ex2>::value << '\\n'
               << "Ex2 is nothrow default-constructible? "
               << std::is_nothrow_default_constructible<Ex2>::value << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 Ex1 is default-constructible? true
 Ex1 is trivially default-constructible? false
 Ex2 is trivially default-constructible? true
 Ex2 is nothrow default-constructible? true

.SH See also

   is_constructible
   is_trivially_constructible      checks if a type has a constructor for specific
   is_nothrow_constructible        arguments
   \fI(C++11)\fP                         \fI(class template)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   is_copy_constructible
   is_trivially_copy_constructible
   is_nothrow_copy_constructible   checks if a type has a copy constructor
   \fI(C++11)\fP                         \fI(class template)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   is_move_constructible
   is_trivially_move_constructible checks if a type can be constructed from an rvalue
   is_nothrow_move_constructible   reference
   \fI(C++11)\fP                         \fI(class template)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   default_initializable           specifies that an object of a type can be default
   (C++20)                         constructed
                                   (concept)
