.TH std::system_error::system_error 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::system_error::system_error \- std::system_error::system_error

.SH Synopsis
   system_error( std::error_code ec );                              \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   system_error( std::error_code ec, const std::string& what_arg ); \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   system_error( std::error_code ec, const char* what_arg );        \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   system_error( int ev, const std::error_category& ecat );         \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   system_error( int ev, const std::error_category& ecat,           \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                 const std::string& what_arg );
   system_error( int ev, const std::error_category& ecat,           \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
                 const char* what_arg );
   system_error( const system_error& other ) noexcept;              \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Constructs new system error object.

   1) Constructs with error code ec.
   2) Constructs with error code ec and explanation string what_arg. The string
   returned by what() is guaranteed to contain what_arg as a substring.
   3) Constructs with underlying error code ev and associated error category ecat.
   4) Constructs with underlying error code ev, associated error category ecat and
   explanatory string what_arg. The string returned by what() is guaranteed to contain
   what_arg as a substring (assuming that it doesn't contain an embedded null
   character).
   5) Copy constructor. Initializes the contents with those of other. If *this and
   other both have dynamic type std::system_error then std::strcmp(what(),
   other.what()) == 0.

.SH Parameters

   ec       - error code
   ev       - underlying error code in the enumeration associated with ecat
   ecat     - the category of error
   what_arg - explanatory string
   other    - another system_error to copy

.SH Example

   Demonstrates how to create a system_error exception from an errno value.


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <system_error>

 int main()
 {
     try
     {
         throw std::system_error(EDOM, std::generic_category(), "FIX ME");
     }
     catch (const std::system_error& ex)
     {
         std::cout << "code:    [" << ex.code() << "]\\n"
                      "message: [" << ex.code().message() << "]\\n"
                      "what:    [" << ex.what() << "]\\n";
     }
 }

.SH Possible output:

 code:    [generic:33]
 message: [Numerical argument out of domain]
 what:    [FIX ME: Numerical argument out of domain]
