.TH std::vector<bool>::reference 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::vector<bool>::reference \- std::vector<bool>::reference

.SH Synopsis
   class reference;

   The std::vector<bool> specialization defines std::vector<bool>::reference as a
   publicly-accessible nested class. std::vector<bool>::reference proxies the behavior
   of references to a single bit in std::vector<bool>.

   The primary use of std::vector<bool>::reference is to provide an l-value that can be
   returned from operator[].

   Any reads or writes to a vector that happen via a std::vector<bool>::reference
   potentially read or write to the entire underlying vector.

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs the reference. Accessible only to std::vector<bool> itself
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   destructor    destroys the reference
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=     assigns a bool to the referenced bit
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator bool returns the referenced bit
                 \fI(public member function)\fP 
   flip          flips the referenced bit
                 \fI(public member function)\fP

std::vector<bool>::~reference

   ~reference()

   Destroys the reference.

std::vector<bool>::reference::operator=

   reference& operator=( bool x );                       \fI(until C++11)\fP
   reference& operator=( const reference& x );
   reference& operator=( bool x ) noexcept;              \fI(since C++11)\fP
   reference& operator=( const reference& x ) noexcept;

   Assigns a value to the referenced bit.

.SH Parameters

   x - value to assign

.SH Return value

   *this

std::vector<bool>::reference::operator bool

   operator bool() const;           \fI(until C++11)\fP
   operator bool() const noexcept;  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Returns the value of the referenced bit.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   The referenced bit.

std::vector<bool>::reference::flip

   void flip();           \fI(until C++11)\fP
   void flip() noexcept;  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Inverts the referenced bit.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH See also

   operator[] access specified element
              \fI(public member function of std::vector)\fP 
   swap       swaps two std::vector<bool>::references
   \fB[static]\fP   \fI(public static member function)\fP 
