.TH std::experimental::any::operator= 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::any::operator= \- std::experimental::any::operator=

.SH Synopsis
   any& operator=( const any& rhs );     \fB(1)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   any& operator=( any&& rhs ) noexcept; \fB(2)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   template<typename ValueType>          \fB(3)\fP (library fundamentals TS)
   any& operator=( ValueType&& rhs );

   Assigns contents to the contained value.

   1) Assigns by copying the state of rhs, as if by any(rhs).swap(*this).
   2) Assigns by moving the state of rhs, as if by any(std::move(rhs)).swap(*this). rhs
   is left in a valid but unspecified state after the assignment.
   3) Assigns the type and value of rhs, as if by
   any(std::forward<ValueType>(rhs)).swap(*this). If
   std::is_copy_constructible<std::decay_t<ValueType>>::value is false, the program is
   ill-formed. This overload participates in overload resolution only if
   std::decay_t<ValueType> is not the same type as any.

.SH Template parameters

   ValueType               -              contained value type
.SH Type requirements
   -
   std::decay_t<ValueType> must meet the requirements of CopyConstructible.

.SH Parameters

   rhs - object whose contained value to assign

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Exceptions

   1,3) Throws bad_alloc or any exception thrown by the constructor of the contained
   type. If an exception is thrown, there are no effects \fI(strong exception guarantee)\fP.

.SH See also

   constructor   constructs an any object
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
