.TH std::chrono::get_tzdb_list,std::chrono::get_tzdb,std::chrono::remote_version, 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::chrono::get_tzdb_list,std::chrono::get_tzdb,std::chrono::remote_version, \- std::chrono::get_tzdb_list,std::chrono::get_tzdb,std::chrono::remote_version,

.SH Synopsis

   std::chrono::tzdb_list& get_tzdb_list(); \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   const std::chrono::tzdb& get_tzdb();     \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   std::string remote_version();            \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   const std::chrono::tzdb& reload_tzdb();  \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   These functions provide access to the program-wide time zone database.

   1) Returns a reference to the global std::chrono::tzdb_list singleton. If this is
   the first access to the database, initialize the database. After the initialization,
   the database will hold a single initialized std::chrono::tzdb object. This function
   is thread-safe: concurrent calls to this function from multiple threads do not
   introduce a data race.
   2) Returns a reference to the first std::chrono::tzdb object held by the tzdb_list
   singleton. Equivalent to std::chrono::get_tzdb_list().front().
   3) Returns a string containing the latest remote database version.
   4) If remote_version() != get_tzdb().version, pushes a new tzdb object representing
   the remote database to the front of the tzdb_list singleton referenced by
   get_tzdb_list(). Otherwise there are no effects. No references, pointers or
   iterators are invalidated. Calling this function concurrently with
   get_tzdb_list().front() or get_tzdb_list().erase_after() does not introduce a data
   race.

.SH Exceptions

   1) std::runtime_error if for any reason a reference to a tzdb_list containing one or
   more valid tzdb cannot be returned.

.SH Return value

   1) A reference to the global std::chrono::tzdb_list singleton.
   2) std::chrono::get_tzdb_list().front().
   3) A string containing the latest remote database version.
   4) std::chrono::get_tzdb_list().front() (after any update made by this function).
