.TH std::unordered_set::extract 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::unordered_set::extract \- std::unordered_set::extract

.SH Synopsis
   node_type extract( const_iterator position ); \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   node_type extract( const Key& k );            \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++17)\fP
   template< class K >                           \fB(3)\fP (since C++23)
   node_type extract( K&& x );

   1) Unlinks the node that contains the element pointed to by position and returns a
   node handle that owns it.
   2) If the container has an element with key equivalent to k, unlinks the node that
   contains that element from the container and returns a node handle that owns it.
   Otherwise, returns an empty node handle.
   3) Same as \fB(2)\fP. This overload participates in overload resolution only if
   Hash::is_transparent and KeyEqual::is_transparent are valid and each denotes a type,
   and neither iterator nor const_iterator is implicitly convertible from K. This
   assumes that such Hash is callable with both K and Key type, and that the KeyEqual
   is transparent, which, together, allows calling this function without constructing
   an instance of Key.

   In either case, no elements are copied or moved, only the internal pointers of the
   container nodes are repointed .

   Extracting a node invalidates only the iterators to the extracted element, and
   preserves the relative order of the elements that are not erased. Pointers and
   references to the extracted element remain valid, but cannot be used while element
   is owned by a node handle: they become usable if the element is inserted into a
   container.

.SH Parameters

   position - a valid iterator into this container
   k        - a key to identify the node to be extracted
   x        - a value of any type that can be transparently compared with a key
              identifying the node to be extracted

.SH Return value

   A node handle that owns the extracted element, or empty node handle in case the
   element is not found in (2,3).

.SH Exceptions

   1) Throws nothing.
   2,3) Any exceptions thrown by the Hash and KeyEqual object.

.SH Complexity

   1,2,3) Average case O(1), worst case O(size()).

.SH Notes

   extract is the only way to take a move-only object out of a set:

 std::set<move_only_type> s;
 s.emplace(...);
 move_only_type mot = std::move(s.extract(s.begin()).value());

               Feature-test macro               Value    Std           Feature
                                                               Heterogeneous erasure in
                                                               associative containers
   __cpp_lib_associative_heterogeneous_erasure 202110L (C++23) and unordered
                                                               associative containers,
                                                               \fB(3)\fP

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string_view>
 #include <unordered_set>

 void print(std::string_view comment, const auto& data)
 {
     std::cout << comment;
     for (auto datum : data)
         std::cout << ' ' << datum;

     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::unordered_set<int> cont{1, 2, 3};

     print("Start:", cont);

     // Extract node handle and change key
     auto nh = cont.extract(1);
     nh.value() = 4;

     print("After extract and before insert:", cont);

     // Insert node handle back
     cont.insert(std::move(nh));

     print("End:", cont);
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Start: 1 2 3
 After extract and before insert: 2 3
 End: 2 3 4

.SH See also

   merge   splices nodes from another container
   \fI(C++17)\fP \fI(public member function)\fP
           inserts elements
   insert  or nodes
           \fI(since C++17)\fP
           \fI(public member function)\fP
   erase   erases elements
           \fI(public member function)\fP
