.TH std::basic_string::assign 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::basic_string::assign \- std::basic_string::assign

.SH Synopsis
basic_string& assign(                (until
size_type count, CharT ch );         C++20)
constexpr basic_string&              (since
assign( size_type count,             C++20)
CharT ch );
basic_string& assign( const                 (until
basic_string& str );                        C++20)
constexpr basic_string&                     (since
assign( const basic_string&                 C++20)
str );
basic_string& assign( const
basic_string& str,                                 (until
                                                   C++14)
size_type pos, size_type
count );
basic_string& assign( const                        (since
basic_string& str,                                 C++14)
                                                   (until
size_type pos, size_type                           C++20)
count = npos);
constexpr basic_string&
assign( const basic_string&
str,                                               (since
                                                   C++20)
    size_type pos, size_type
count = npos);
                                                          (since
basic_string& assign(                                     C++11)
basic_string&& str );                                     (until
                                                          C++17)
basic_string& assign(                                     (since
basic_string&& str )                                      C++17)
noexcept(/* see below */);                                (until
                                                          C++20)
constexpr basic_string&
assign( basic_string&& str )                              (since
    noexcept(/* see below                                 C++20)
*/);
basic_string& assign( const                                      (until
CharT* s, size_type count );                                     C++20)
constexpr basic_string&                                          (since
assign( const CharT* s,                                          C++20)
size_type count );           \fB(1)\fP
basic_string& assign( const                                             (until
CharT* s );                                                             C++20)
constexpr basic_string&          \fB(2)\fP                                    (since
assign( const CharT* s );                                               C++20)
template< class InputIt >            \fB(3)\fP
basic_string& assign(                                                          (until
InputIt first, InputIt last                                                    C++20)
);
template< class InputIt >
constexpr basic_string&                                                        (since
assign( InputIt first,                                                         C++20)
InputIt last );
basic_string& assign(                       \fB(4)\fP                                       (since
std::initializer_list<CharT>                                                          C++11)
ilist );                                                                              (until
                                                                                      C++20)
constexpr basic_string&
assign(                                                                               (since
std::initializer_list<CharT>                       \fB(5)\fP                                C++20)
ilist );
template < class T >                                                                         (since
basic_string& assign( const                               \fB(6)\fP                                C++17)
T& t );                                                                                      (until
                                                                 \fB(7)\fP                         C++20)
template < class T >                                                                         (since
constexpr basic_string&                                                                      C++20)
assign( const T& t );
template < class T >                                                    \fB(8)\fP

basic_string& assign( const                                                                         (since
T& t,                                                                                               C++17)
                                                                               \fB(9)\fP                  (until
                                                                                                    C++20)
size_type pos, size_type
count = npos);                                                                        \fB(10)\fP
template < class T >

constexpr basic_string&
assign( const T& t,                                                                                 (since
                                                                                                    C++20)

    size_type pos, size_type
count = npos);

   Replaces the contents of the string.

   1) Replaces the contents with count copies of character ch.
   2) Replaces the contents with a copy of str. Equivalent to *this = str;.
   In particular, allocator propagation may take place.
   \fI(since C++11)\fP
   3) Replaces the contents with a substring [pos, pos+count) of str. If the requested
   substring lasts past the end of the string, or if count == npos, the resulting
   substring is [pos, str.size()). If pos > str.size(), std::out_of_range is thrown.
   4) Replaces the contents with those of str using move semantics. Equivalent to *this
   = std::move(str). In particular, allocator propagation may take place.
   5) Replaces the contents with copies of the characters in the range [s, s+count).
   This range can contain null characters.
   6) Replaces the contents with those of null-terminated character string pointed to
   by s. The length of the string is determined by the first null character using
   Traits::length(s).
   7) Replaces the contents with copies of the characters in the range [first, last).
   This overload does not participate in overload resolution if InputIt does not
   satisfy LegacyInputIterator.
   \fI(since C++11)\fP
   8) Replaces the contents with those of the initializer list ilist.
   9) Implicitly converts t to a string view sv as if by std::basic_string_view<CharT,
   Traits> sv = t;, then replaces the contents with those of sv, as if by
   assign(sv.data(), sv.size()). This overload only participates in overload resolution
   if std::is_convertible_v<const T&, std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>> is true
   and std::is_convertible_v<const T&, const CharT*> is false.
   10) Implicitly converts t to a string view sv as if by std::basic_string_view<CharT,
   Traits> sv = t;, then replaces the contents with the characters from the subview
   [pos, pos+count) of sv. If the requested subview lasts past the end of sv, or if
   count == npos, the resulting subview is [pos, sv.size()). If pos > sv.size(),
   std::out_of_range is thrown. This overload only participates in overload resolution
   if std::is_convertible_v<const T&, std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits>> is true
   and std::is_convertible_v<const T&, const CharT*> is false.

.SH Parameters

   count       - size of the resulting string
   pos         - index of the first character to take
   ch          - value to initialize characters of the string with
   first, last - range to copy the characters from
   str         - string to be used as source to initialize the characters with
   s           - pointer to a character string to use as source to initialize the
                 string with
   ilist       - std::initializer_list to initialize the characters of the string with
   t           - object (convertible to std::basic_string_view) to initialize the
                 characters of the string with
.SH Type requirements
   -
   InputIt must meet the requirements of LegacyInputIterator.

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Complexity

   1) linear in count
   2) linear in size of str
   3) linear in count
   4) constant. If alloc is given and alloc != other.get_allocator(), then linear.
   5) linear in count
   6) linear in size of s
   7) linear in distance between first and last
   8) linear in size of ilist

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown for any reason, this function has no effect (strong
   exception guarantee).
   \fI(since C++11)\fP

   If the operation would result in size() > max_size(), throws std::length_error.

4)
noexcept specification:
noexcept(std::allocator_traits<Allocator>::propagate_on_container_move_assignment::value
 || std::allocator_traits<Allocator>::is_always_equal::value)

.SH Example


// Run this code

#include <iostream>
#include <iterator>
#include <string>

int main()
{
  std::string s;
  // assign(size_type count, CharT ch)
  s.assign(4, '=');
  std::cout << s << '\\n'; // "===="

  std::string const c("Exemplary");
  // assign(basic_string const& str)
  s.assign(c);
  std::cout << c << "==" << s <<'\\n'; // "Exemplary == Exemplary"

  // assign(basic_string const& str, size_type pos, size_type count)
  s.assign(c, 0, c.length()-1);
  std::cout << s << '\\n'; // "Exemplar";

  // assign(basic_string&& str)                                                          (since
  s.assign(std::string("C++ by ") + "example");                                          C++17)
  std::cout << s << '\\n'; // "C++ by example"

  // assign(charT const* s, size_type count)
  s.assign("C-style string", 7);
  std::cout << s << '\\n'; // "C-style"

  // assign(charT const* s)
  s.assign("C-style\\0string");
  std::cout << s << '\\n'; // "C-style"

  char mutable_c_str[] = "C-style string";
  // assign(InputIt first, InputIt last)
  s.assign(std::begin(mutable_c_str), std::end(mutable_c_str)-1);
  std::cout << s << '\\n'; // "C-style string"

  // assign(std::initializer_list<charT> ilist)
  s.assign({ 'C', '-', 's', 't', 'y', 'l', 'e' });
  std::cout << s << '\\n'; // "C-style"
}

.SH Output:

====
Exemplary==Exemplary
Exemplar
C++ by example
.SH C-style
.SH C-style
C-style string
.SH C-style

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to         Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   LWG 2063 C++11      non-normative note stated that swap is corrected to require move
                       a valid implementation of move-assign  assignment
   LWG 2579 C++11      assign(const basic_string&) doesn't    made to propagate
                       propagate allocators                   allocators if needed
   LWG 2946 C++17      string_view overload causes ambiguity  avoided by making it a
                       in some cases                          template

.SH See also

   constructor   constructs a basic_string
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=     assigns values to the string
                 \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Category:

     * conditionally noexcept
