.TH std::strstreambuf::pbackfail 3 "Nov 16 2016" "2.1 | http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::strstreambuf::pbackfail \- std::strstreambuf::pbackfail

.SH Synopsis
   protected:
   virtual int_type pbackfail( int_type c = EOF );

   This protected virtual function is called by the public functions
   basic_streambuf::sungetc and basic_streambuf::sputbackc (which, in turn, are called
   by basic_istream::unget and basic_istream::putback).

   1) The caller is requesting that the get area is backed up by one character
   (pbackfail() is called with no arguments or with EOF as the argument)
   a) First, checks if there is a putback position, and if there really isn't, fails.
   (strstreambuf has no external character source to re-read)
   b) If the caller was wrong and the putback position is in fact available, simply
   decrements basic_streambuf::gptr(), e.g. by calling gbump(-1).
   2) The caller attempts to putback a different character from the one retrieved
   earlier (pbackfail() is called with the character that needs to be put back), in
   which case
   a) First, checks if there is a putback position, and if there isn't, fails.
   b) Then checks what character is in the putback position. If the character held
   there is already equal to (char)c, then simply decrements basic_streambuf::gptr().
   c) Otherwise, if the buffer is unmodifiable (this strstreambuf was constructed with
   a string literal or some other const array), fails.
   d) Otherwise, decrements basic_streambuf::gptr() and writes c to the location
   pointed to gptr() after adjustment.

.SH Parameters

   c - the character to put back, or Traits::eof() to indicate that backing up of the
       get area is requested

.SH Return value

   c on success except if c was EOF, in which case unspecified value other than EOF is
   returned.

   EOF on failure.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   pbackfail puts a character back into the input sequence, possibly modifying the
   \fB[virtual]\fP input sequence
             \fI(virtual protected member function of std::basic_streambuf)\fP
   sungetc   moves the next pointer in the input sequence back by one
             \fI(public member function of std::basic_streambuf)\fP
   sputbackc puts one character back in the input sequence
             \fI(public member function of std::basic_streambuf)\fP
   unget     unextracts a character
             \fI(public member function of std::basic_istream)\fP
   putback   puts character into input stream
             \fI(public member function of std::basic_istream)\fP

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
