.TH std::ranges::rbegin 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::rbegin \- std::ranges::rbegin

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <ranges>
   inline namespace /*unspecified*/ {

   inline constexpr /*unspecified*/ rbegin =               \fI(since C++20)\fP
   /*unspecified*/;                                        (customization point object)

   }
   Call signature
   template< class T >

   requires /* see below */                                \fI(since C++20)\fP

   constexpr std::input_or_output_iterator auto rbegin(
   T&& t );

   Returns an iterator to the last element of the argument.

   range-rbegin-rend.svg

   Let t be an object of type T. If the argument is an lvalue or
   ranges::enable_borrowed_range<std::remove_cv_t<T>> is true, then a call to
   ranges::rbegin is expression-equivalent to:

    1. t.rbegin() converted to its decayed type, if that expression with conversion is
       valid, and its converted type models std::input_or_output_iterator.
    2. Otherwise, rbegin(t) converted to its decayed type, if T is a class or
       enumeration type, the aforementioned unqualified call with conversion is valid,
       its converted type models std::input_or_output_iterator, where the overload
       resolution is performed with the following candidates:

          * void rbegin(auto&) = delete;
          * void rbegin(const auto&) = delete;
          * any declarations of rbegin found by argument-dependent lookup.

    3. Otherwise, std::make_reverse_iterator(ranges::end(t)) if both ranges::begin(t)
       and ranges::end(t) are valid expressions, have the same type, and that type
       models std::bidirectional_iterator.

   In all other cases, a call to ranges::rbegin is ill-formed, which can result in
   substitution failure when ranges::rbegin(t) appears in the immediate context of a
   template instantiation.

  Expression-equivalent

   Expression e is expression-equivalent to expression f, if e and f have the same
   effects, either are both potentially-throwing or are both not potentially-throwing
   (i.e. noexcept(e) == noexcept(f)), and either are both constant subexpressions or
   are both not constant subexpressions.

  Customization point objects

   The name ranges::rbegin denotes a customization point object, which is a const
   function object of a literal semiregular class type. For exposition purposes, the
   cv-unqualified version of its type is denoted as __rbegin_fn.

   All instances of __rbegin_fn are equal. The effects of invoking different instances
   of type __rbegin_fn on the same arguments are equivalent, regardless of whether the
   expression denoting the instance is an lvalue or rvalue, and is const-qualified or
   not (however, a volatile-qualified instance is not required to be invocable). Thus,
   ranges::rbegin can be copied freely and its copies can be used interchangeably.

   Given a set of types Args..., if std::declval<Args>()... meet the requirements for
   arguments to ranges::rbegin above, __rbegin_fn models std::invocable<__rbegin_fn,
   Args...>, std::invocable<const __rbegin_fn, Args...>, std::invocable<__rbegin_fn&,
   Args...>, and std::invocable<const __rbegin_fn&, Args...>. Otherwise, no function
   call operator of __rbegin_fn participates in overload resolution.

.SH Notes

   If the argument is an rvalue (i.e. T is an object type) and
   ranges::enable_borrowed_range<std::remove_cv_t<T>> is false, the call to
   ranges::rbegin is ill-formed, which also results in substitution failure.

   The return type models std::input_or_output_iterator in all cases.

   The C++20 standard requires that if the underlying rbegin function call returns a
   prvalue, the return value is move-constructed from the materialized temporary
   object. All implementations directly return the prvalue instead. The requirement is
   corrected by the post-C++20 proposal P0849R8 to match the implementations.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <vector>
 #include <ranges>
 #include <span>

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> v = { 3, 1, 4 };
     auto vi = std::ranges::rbegin(v);
     std::cout << *vi << '\\n';
     *vi = 42; // OK

     int a[] = { -5, 10, 15 };
     auto ai = std::ranges::rbegin(a);
     std::cout << *ai << '\\n';
     *ai = 42; // OK

     // auto x_x = std::ranges::rbegin(std::vector{6,6,6});
     // ill-formed: the argument is an rvalue (see Notes ↑)

     auto si = std::ranges::rbegin(std::span{a}); // OK:
     static_assert(std::ranges::enable_borrowed_range<
         std::remove_cv_t<decltype(std::span{a})>>);
     *si = 42; // OK
 }

.SH Output:

 4
 15

.SH See also

   ranges::crbegin returns a reverse iterator to a read-only range
   (C++20)         (customization point object)
   rbegin          returns a reverse iterator to the beginning of a container or array
   crbegin         \fI(function template)\fP
   \fI(C++14)\fP
