.TH std::to_string 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::to_string \- std::to_string

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <string>
   std::string to_string( int value );                \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::string to_string( long value );               \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::string to_string( long long value );          \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::string to_string( unsigned value );           \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::string to_string( unsigned long value );      \fB(5)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::string to_string( unsigned long long value ); \fB(6)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::string to_string( float value );              \fB(7)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::string to_string( double value );             \fB(8)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::string to_string( long double value );        \fB(9)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Converts a numeric value to std::string.

   1) Converts a signed decimal integer to a string with the same content as what
   std::sprintf(buf, "%d", value) would produce for sufficiently large buf.
   2) Converts a signed decimal integer to a string with the same content as what
   std::sprintf(buf, "%ld", value) would produce for sufficiently large buf.
   3) Converts a signed decimal integer to a string with the same content as what
   std::sprintf(buf, "%lld", value) would produce for sufficiently large buf.
   4) Converts an unsigned decimal integer to a string with the same content as what
   std::sprintf(buf, "%u", value) would produce for sufficiently large buf.
   5) Converts an unsigned decimal integer to a string with the same content as what
   std::sprintf(buf, "%lu", value) would produce for sufficiently large buf.
   6) Converts an unsigned decimal integer to a string with the same content as what
   std::sprintf(buf, "%llu", value) would produce for sufficiently large buf.
   7,8) Converts a floating point value to a string with the same content as what
   std::sprintf(buf, "%f", value) would produce for sufficiently large buf.
   9) Converts a floating point value to a string with the same content as what
   std::sprintf(buf, "%Lf", value) would produce for sufficiently large buf.

.SH Parameters

   value - a numeric value to convert

.SH Return value

   a string holding the converted value

.SH Notes

     * With floating point types std::to_string may yield unexpected results as the
       number of significant digits in the returned string can be zero, see the
       example.
     * The return value may differ significantly from what std::cout prints by default,
       see the example.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>
  
 int main()
 {
     double f = 23.43;
     double f2 = 1e-9;
     double f3 = 1e40;
     double f4 = 1e-40;
     double f5 = 123456789;
     std::string f_str = std::to_string(f);
     std::string f_str2 = std::to_string(f2); // Note: returns "0.000000"
     std::string f_str3 = std::to_string(f3); // Note: Does not return "1e+40".
     std::string f_str4 = std::to_string(f4); // Note: returns "0.000000"
     std::string f_str5 = std::to_string(f5);
     std::cout << "std::cout: " << f << '\\n'
               << "to_string: " << f_str  << "\\n\\n"
               << "std::cout: " << f2 << '\\n'
               << "to_string: " << f_str2 << "\\n\\n"
               << "std::cout: " << f3 << '\\n'
               << "to_string: " << f_str3 << "\\n\\n"
               << "std::cout: " << f4 << '\\n'
               << "to_string: " << f_str4 << "\\n\\n"
               << "std::cout: " << f5 << '\\n'
               << "to_string: " << f_str5 << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 std::cout: 23.43
 to_string: 23.430000
  
 std::cout: 1e-09
 to_string: 0.000000
  
 std::cout: 1e+40
 to_string: 10000000000000000303786028427003666890752.000000
  
 std::cout: 1e-40
 to_string: 0.000000
  
 std::cout: 1.23457e+08
 to_string: 123456789.000000

.SH See also

   to_wstring converts an integral or floating point value to wstring
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(function)\fP 
   stoul
   stoull     converts a string to an unsigned integer
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(function)\fP 
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   stoi
   stol
   stoll      converts a string to a signed integer
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(function)\fP 
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   stof
   stod
   stold      converts a string to a floating point value
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(function)\fP 
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
   to_chars   converts an integer or floating-point value to a character sequence
   \fI(C++17)\fP    \fI(function)\fP 
