.TH std::asinh 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::asinh \- std::asinh

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float       asinh( float arg );       \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double      asinh( double arg );      \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   long double asinh( long double arg ); \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double      asinh( Integral arg );    \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Computes the inverse hyperbolic sine of arg.

   4) A set of overloads or a function template accepting an argument of any integral
   type. Equivalent to 2) (the argument is cast to double).

.SH Parameters

   arg - value of a floating-point or Integral type

.SH Return value

   If no errors occur, the inverse hyperbolic sine of arg (sinh-1
   (arg), or arsinh(arg)), is returned.

   If a range error occurs due to underflow, the correct result (after rounding) is
   returned.

.SH Error handling

   Errors are reported as specified in math_errhandling

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * if the argument is ±0 or ±∞, it is returned unmodified
     * if the argument is NaN, NaN is returned

.SH Notes

   Although the C standard (to which C++ refers for this function) names this function
   "arc hyperbolic sine", the inverse functions of the hyperbolic functions are the
   area functions. Their argument is the area of a hyperbolic sector, not an arc. The
   correct name is "inverse hyperbolic sine" (used by POSIX) or "area hyperbolic sine".

.SH Examples

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <cmath>
  
 int main()
 {
     std::cout << "asinh(1) = " << std::asinh(1) << '\\n'
               << "asinh(-1) = " << std::asinh(-1) << '\\n';
     // special values
     std::cout << "asinh(+0) = " << std::asinh(+0.0) << '\\n'
               << "asinh(-0) = " <<  std::asinh(-0.0) << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 asinh\fB(1)\fP = 0.881374
 asinh(-1) = -0.881374
 asinh(+0) = 0
 asinh(-0) = -0

.SH See also

   acosh               computes the inverse hyperbolic cosine (arcosh(x))
   \fI(C++11)\fP             \fI(function)\fP 
   atanh               computes the inverse hyperbolic tangent (artanh(x))
   \fI(C++11)\fP             \fI(function)\fP 
   sinh                computes hyperbolic sine (sh(x))
                       \fI(function)\fP 
   asinh(std::complex) computes area hyperbolic sine of a complex number
   \fI(C++11)\fP             \fI(function template)\fP 
   C documentation for
   asinh

.SH External links

   Weisstein, Eric W. "Inverse Hyperbolic Sine." From MathWorld--A Wolfram Web
   Resource.
