.TH std::experimental::pmr::unsynchronized_pool_resource::unsynchronized_pool_resource 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::pmr::unsynchronized_pool_resource::unsynchronized_pool_resource \- std::experimental::pmr::unsynchronized_pool_resource::unsynchronized_pool_resource

.SH Synopsis
   unsynchronized_pool_resource();                            \fB(1)\fP (library fundamentals
                                                                  TS)
   explicit unsynchronized_pool_resource( memory_resource*    \fB(2)\fP (library fundamentals
   upstream );                                                    TS)
   explicit unsynchronized_pool_resource( const pool_options& \fB(3)\fP (library fundamentals
   opts );                                                        TS)
   unsynchronized_pool_resource( const pool_options& opts,    \fB(4)\fP (library fundamentals
                                 memory_resource* upstream );     TS)
   unsynchronized_pool_resource( const                        \fB(5)\fP (library fundamentals
   unsynchronized_pool_resource& ) = delete;                      TS)

   Constructs an unsynchronized_pool_resource.

   1-4) Constructs an unsynchronized_pool_resource using the specified upstream memory
   resource and tuned according to the specified options. The resulting object holds a
   copy of upstream but does not own the resource to which upstream points.
   The overloads not taking opts as a parameter uses a default constructed instance of
   pool_options as the options. The overloads not taking upstream as a parameter uses
   the return value of std::experimental::pmr::get_default_resource() as the upstream
   memory resource.
   5) Copy constructor is deleted.

.SH Parameters

   opts     - a pool_options struct containing the constructor options
   upstream - the upstream memory resource to use

.SH Exceptions

   1-4) Throws only if a call to the allocate() function of the upstream resource
   throws. It is unspecified if or under what conditions such a call takes place.
.SH Category:
     * Noindexed pages
