.TH std::bitset::bitset 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::bitset::bitset \- std::bitset::bitset

.SH Synopsis
   bitset();                                                   (until
                                                               C++11)
   constexpr bitset() noexcept;                                (since
                                                               C++11)
   bitset( unsigned long val );                                        \fI(until C++11)\fP
   constexpr bitset( unsigned long long val )                          \fI(since C++11)\fP
   noexcept;
   template< class CharT, class Traits, class Alloc >

   explicit bitset( const std::basic_string<CharT,
   Traits, Alloc>& str,
                    typename std::basic_string<CharT,
   Traits, Alloc>::size_type
                        pos = 0,                               \fB(3)\fP     (constexpr since
                    typename std::basic_string<CharT,                  C++23)
   Traits, Alloc>::size_type
                        n = std::basic_string<CharT,
   Traits, Alloc>::npos,
                    CharT zero = CharT('0'),
                                                       \fB(1)\fP
                    CharT one = CharT('1') );
   template< class CharT, class Traits >                   \fB(2)\fP

   constexpr explicit bitset(
   std::basic_string_view<CharT, Traits> str,
                              std::size_t pos = 0,
                              std::size_t n =                  \fB(4)\fP     (since C++26)
   std::size_t(-1),
                              CharT zero = CharT('0'),

                              CharT one = CharT('1')
   );
   template< class CharT >

   explicit bitset( const CharT* str,                                  \fI(since C++11)\fP
                    std::size_t n = std::size_t(-1),           \fB(5)\fP     (constexpr since
                    CharT zero = CharT('0'),                           C++23)

                    CharT one = CharT('1') );

   Constructs a new bitset from one of several optional data sources:

   1) Default constructor. Constructs a bitset with all bits set to zero.
   2) Constructs a bitset, initializing the first (rightmost, least significant) M bit
   positions to the corresponding bit values of val, where M is the smaller of
     * N, and

     * the number of bits in the value representation of unsigned long.   \fI(until C++11)\fP
       For typical implementations, it is 32 or 64.
     * the number of bits in the value representation of unsigned long    \fI(since C++11)\fP
       long. For typical implementations, it is 64.

   If M is less than N, the remaining bit positions are initialized to zeroes.
   3) Constructs a bitset using the characters in the std::basic_string str. An
   optional starting position pos and length n can be provided, as well as characters
   denoting alternate values for set (one) and unset (zero) bits. Traits::eq() is used
   to compare the character values.
   The effective length of the initializing string is std::min(n, str.size() - pos).
   If pos > str.size(), this constructor throws std::out_of_range. If any character
   examined in str is not zero or one, this constructor throws std::invalid_argument.
   4) Similar to \fB(3)\fP, but uses a std::basic_string_view instead of a std::basic_string.
   5) Similar to \fB(3)\fP, but uses a const CharT* instead of a std::basic_string.
   Equivalent to

 bitset(n == std::size_t(-1)
           ? basic_string<CharT>(str)
           : basic_string<CharT>(str, n), 0, n, zero, one)

   This constructor may dynamically allocate memory, although             (until C++26)
   implementations generally avoid dynamic allocation.
   This constructor does not dynamically allocate memory, as if only      (since C++26)
   std::basic_string_view is involved.

.SH Parameters

   val  - number used to initialize the bitset
   str  - string used to initialize the bitset
   pos  - a starting offset into str
   n    - number of characters to use from str
   one  - alternate character for set bits in str
   zero - alternate character for unset bits in str

.SH Exceptions

   3,4) std::out_of_range if pos > str.size(), std::invalid_argument if any character
   is not one or zero.
   5) std::invalid_argument if any character is not one or zero.

.SH Notes

       Feature-test macro      Value    Std                    Feature
   __cpp_lib_constexpr_bitset 202207L (C++23) A more constexpr std::bitset, overloads
                                              (3,5)
   __cpp_lib_bitset           202306L (C++26) Interfacing std::bitset with
                                              std::string_view, \fB(4)\fP

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <bitset>
 #include <climits>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>

 int main()
 {
     // empty constructor (1)
     std::bitset<8> b1; // [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]

     // unsigned long long constructor (2)
     std::bitset<8> b2(42);          // [0,0,1,0,1,0,1,0]
     std::bitset<70> bl(ULLONG_MAX); // [0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,1,...,1,1,1] in C++11
     std::bitset<8> bs(0xfff0);      // [1,1,1,1,0,0,0,0]

     // string constructor (3)
     std::string bit_string = "110010";
     std::bitset<8> b3(bit_string);       // [0,0,1,1,0,0,1,0]
     std::bitset<8> b4(bit_string, 2);    // [0,0,0,0,0,0,1,0]
     std::bitset<8> b5(bit_string, 2, 3); // [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1]

     // string constructor using custom zero/one digits (3)
     std::string alpha_bit_string = "aBaaBBaB";
     std::bitset<8> b6(alpha_bit_string, 0, alpha_bit_string.size(),
                       'a', 'B');         // [0,1,0,0,1,1,0,1]

     // char* constructor using custom digits (5)
     std::bitset<8> b7("XXXXYYYY", 8, 'X', 'Y'); // [0,0,0,0,1,1,1,1]

     std::cout <<   "b1: " << b1 << "\\nb2: " << b2 << "\\nbl: " << bl
               << "\\nbs: " << bs << "\\nb3: " << b3 << "\\nb4: " << b4
               << "\\nb5: " << b5 << "\\nb6: " << b6 << "\\nb7: " << b7 << '\\n';
 }

.SH Possible output:

 b1: 00000000
 b2: 00101010
 bl: 0000001111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
 bs: 11110000
 b3: 00110010
 b4: 00000010
 b5: 00000001
 b6: 01001101
 b7: 00001111

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

     DR    Applied to           Behavior as published              Correct behavior
                      the values of the zero and one characters added parameters to
   LWG 396 C++98      for overload \fB(3)\fP                          provide
                      were 0 and 1 (which do not correspond to  values for these
                      '0' and '1')                              characters
                      M is the smaller of N and the value
                      CHAR_BIT * sizeof(unsigned long)          consider the number
   LWG 457 C++98      for overload \fB(2)\fP, but unsigned long is    of bits of the value
                      not                                       representation instead
                      guaranteed to use all its bits to
                      represent its value

.SH See also

   set   sets bits to true or given value
         \fI(public member function)\fP
   reset sets bits to false
         \fI(public member function)\fP
