.TH std::experimental::propagate_const::propagate_const 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::propagate_const::propagate_const \- std::experimental::propagate_const::propagate_const

.SH Synopsis
   constexpr propagate_const() = default;              \fB(1)\fP (library fundamentals TS v2)
   constexpr propagate_const( propagate_const&& p ) =  \fB(2)\fP (library fundamentals TS v2)
   default;
   template< class U >
   /* see below */ constexpr propagate_const(          \fB(3)\fP (library fundamentals TS v2)
   propagate_const<U>&& pu );
   template< class U >                                 \fB(4)\fP (library fundamentals TS v2)
   /* see below */ constexpr propagate_const( U&& u );
   propagate_const( const propagate_const& ) = delete; \fB(5)\fP (library fundamentals TS v2)

   Let t_ designate the private data member that is the wrapped pointer-like object.

   1) Constructs a propagate_const, default-initializing this->t_.
   2) Explicitly defaulted move constructor that move constructs this->t_ from p.t_.
   3) Initializes this->t_ as if by direct-non-list-initialization from the expression
   std::move(pu.t_).
   This constructor does not participate in overload resolution unless
   std::is_constructible<T, U>::value is true, and is explicit if and only if
   std::is_convertible<U, T>::value is false.
   4) Initializes this->t_ as if by direct-non-list-initialization with the expression
   std::forward<U>(u).
   This constructor does not participate in overload resolution unless
   std::is_constructible<T, U>::value is true and std::decay_t<U> is not a
   specialization of propagate_const. This constructor is explicit if and only if
   std::is_convertible<U, T>::value is false.
   5) Copy constructor is explicitly deleted. propagate_const is non-copyable.

.SH Parameters

   p  - another propagate_const object to move from
   pu - another propagate_const object of a different specialization to move from
   u  - another object to initialize the contained pointer with

.SH Notes

   In Library Fundamental TS v2 (based on C++14), \fB(4)\fP and \fB(5)\fP are typically implemented
   in explicit/non-explicit overload pairs. Since Library Fundamental TS v3 (based on
   C++20), they can be implemented in conditional explicit specifiers.
