.TH std::coroutine_handle::operator(),std::coroutine_handle::resume 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::coroutine_handle::operator(),std::coroutine_handle::resume \- std::coroutine_handle::operator(),std::coroutine_handle::resume

.SH Synopsis
   Member of other specializations
   void operator()() const;                                                 \fB(1)\fP (since
   void resume() const;                                                         C++20)
   Member of specialization
   std::coroutine_handle<std::noop_coroutine_promise>
   constexpr void operator()() const noexcept;                              \fB(2)\fP (since
   constexpr void resume() const noexcept;                                      C++20)

   1) Resumes the execution of the coroutine to which *this refers, or does nothing if
   the coroutine is a no-op coroutine.
   2) Does nothing.

   The behavior is undefined if the resumption is needed, and *this does not refer to
   suspended coroutine or the coroutine is suspended at its final suspend point. A
   concurrent resumption of the coroutine may result in a data race.

   Resumption of a coroutine on an execution agent other than the one on which it was
   suspended has implementation-defined behavior unless each execution agent either is
   a thread represented by std::thread or std::jthread, or is the thread executing
   main.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Notes

   A coroutine that is resumed on a different execution agent should avoid relying on
   consistent thread identity throughout, such as holding a mutex object across a
   suspend point.

   N4861 (C++20 final working draft) requires that a call to operator() or resume on a
   std::coroutine_handle<> converted from a std::noop_coroutine_handle is also no-op,
   which is unimplementable because a std::noop_coroutine_handle may refer to a
   coroutine that is not no-op, or may not refer to a coroutine. This is LWG issue
   3460.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   destroy destroys a coroutine
   (C++20) \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Category:

     * Todo no example
