.TH std::ranges::elements_view::iterator 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::elements_view::iterator \- std::ranges::elements_view::iterator

.SH Synopsis
   template< bool Const >  (exposition only*)
   class /*iterator*/;

   The return type of elements_view::begin, and of elements_view::end when the
   underlying view is a common_range.

   The type /*iterator*/<true> is returned by the const-qualified overloads. The type
   /*iterator*/<false> is returned by the non-const-qualified overloads.

.SH Member types

   Member type       Definition
   Base (private)    const V if Const is true, otherwise V.
                     (exposition-only member type*)
                     Denotes:
                       * std::random_access_iterator_tag, if Base models
                         random_access_range. Otherwise,
   iterator_concept    * std::bidirectional_iterator_tag, if Base models
                         bidirectional_range. Otherwise,
                       * std::forward_iterator_tag, if Base models forward_range.
                         Otherwise,
                       * std::input_iterator_tag.
                     Not defined, if Base does not model forward_range. Otherwise,
                       * std::input_iterator_tag, if std::get<N>(*current_) is an
                         rvalue. Otherwise, let C be the type
   iterator_category     std::iterator_traits<std::iterator_t<Base>>::iterator_category.
                       * std::random_access_iterator_tag, if C models
                         std::derived_from<std::random_access_iterator_tag>. Otherwise,
                       * C.
   value_type        std::remove_cvref_t<std::tuple_element_t<N,
                     ranges::range_value_t<Base>>>
   difference_type   ranges::range_difference_t<Base>

   Data members

   Member object      Definition
                      An iterator of type ranges::iterator_t<Base> to current element
   current_ (private) of underlying sequence.
                      (exposition-only member object*)

.SH Member functions

   constructor     constructs an iterator
   (C++20)         \fI(public member function)\fP
   base            returns the underlying iterator
   (C++20)         \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator*       accesses the N^th tuple element
   (C++20)         \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator[]      accesses an element by index
   (C++20)         \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator++
   operator++(int)
   operator--      advances or decrements the underlying iterator
   operator--(int) \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator+=
   operator-=
   (C++20)

.SH Non-member functions

   operator==
   operator<
   operator>   compares the underlying iterators
   operator<=  \fI(function)\fP
   operator>=
   operator<=>
   (C++20)
   operator+   performs iterator arithmetic
   operator-   \fI(function)\fP
   (C++20)

   Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to        Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   P2259R1  C++20      member iterator_category is always   defined only if Base models
                       defined                              forward_range
   LWG 3555 C++20      the definition of iterator_concept   made to consider
                       ignores const

.SH See also

   iterator the return type of ranges::transform_view::begin, and of
   (C++20)  ranges::transform_view::end when the underlying view is a common_range
            (private member class template)
