.TH std::inout_ptr_t 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::inout_ptr_t \- std::inout_ptr_t

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <memory>
   template< class Smart, class Pointer, class... Args >  (since C++23)
   class inout_ptr_t;

   inout_ptr_t is used to adapt types such as smart pointers for foreign functions that
   reset ownership via a Pointer* (usually T** for some object type T) or void**
   parameter.

   inout_ptr_t captures additional arguments on construction, provides a storage for
   the result which such an aforementioned foreign function accesses, releases the
   ownership held by the adapted Smart object, and finally resets the adapted Smart
   object with the result and the captured arguments when it is destroyed.

   inout_ptr_t behaves as if it holds following non-static data members:

     * a Smart& reference, which is bound to the adapted object on construction,
     * for every T in Args..., a member of type T, which is an argument captured on
       construction and used for resetting while destruction, and
     * a member subobject that suitable for storing a Pointer within it and providing a
       void* object, where the Pointer or void* object is generally exposed to a
       foreign function for ownership resetting.

   If Smart is not a pointer type, release() is called at most once on the adapted
   object. Implementations may call release() within constructor, or before resetting
   within destructor if the Pointer value is not null.

   Users can control whether each argument for resetting is captured by copy or by
   reference, by specifying an object type or a reference type in Args... respectively.

.SH Template parameters

   Smart   - the type of the object (typically a smart pointer) to adapt
   Pointer - type of the object (typically a raw pointer) to which a foreign function
             accesses for ownership resetting
   Args... - type of captured arguments used for resetting the adapted object
.SH Type requirements
   -
   Pointer must meet the requirements of NullablePointer.
   -
   The program is ill-formed if Smart is a std::shared_ptr specialization.

.SH Specializations

   Unlike most class templates in the standard library, program-defined specializations
   of inout_ptr_t that depend on at least one program-defined type need not meet the
   requirements for the primary template.

   This license allows a program-defined specialization to expose the raw pointer
   stored within a non-standard smart pointer to foreign functions.

.SH Member functions

   constructor       constructs an inout_ptr_t
   (C++23)           \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator=         inout_ptr_t is not assignable
   [deleted](C++23)  \fI(public member function)\fP
   destructor        resets the adapted smart pointer after releasing its ownership
   (C++23)           \fI(public member function)\fP
   operator Pointer* converts the inout_ptr_t to the address of the storage for output
   operator void**   \fI(public member function)\fP
   (C++23)

.SH Non-member functions

   inout_ptr creates an inout_ptr_t with an associated smart pointer and resetting
   (C++23)   arguments
             \fI(function template)\fP

.SH Notes

   inout_ptr_t expects that the foreign functions release the ownership represented by
   the value of the pointed-to Pointer, and then re-initialize it. As such operation
   requires unique ownership, the usage with std::shared_ptr is forbidden.

   The typical usage of inout_ptr_t is creating its temporary objects by
   std::inout_ptr, which resets the adapted smart pointer immediately. E.g. given a
   setter function and a smart pointer of appropriate type declared with int
   foreign_resetter(T**); and std::unique_ptr<T, D> up; respectively,

 if (int ec = foreign_resetter(std::inout_ptr(up)))
     return ec;

   is roughly equivalent to

 T *raw_p = up.get();
 up.release();
 int ec = foreign_resetter(&raw_p);
 up.reset(raw_p);
 if (ec != 0)
     return ec;

   It is not recommended to create an inout_ptr_t object of a storage duration other
   than automatic storage duration, because such code is likely to produce dangling
   references and result in undefined behavior on destruction.

   Captured arguments are typically packed into a std::tuple<Args...>. Implementations
   may use different mechanism to provide the Pointer or void* object they need hold.

   Feature-test macro  Value    Std                     Feature
   __cpp_lib_out_ptr  202106L (C++23) std::out_ptr, std::inout_ptr
                      202311L (C++26) freestanding std::out_ptr and std::inout_ptr

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   out_ptr_t  interoperates with foreign pointer setters and resets a smart pointer on
   (C++23)    destruction
              \fI(class template)\fP
   unique_ptr smart pointer with unique object ownership semantics
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(class template)\fP
   shared_ptr smart pointer with shared object ownership semantics
   \fI(C++11)\fP    \fI(class template)\fP

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
