.TH std::malloc 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::malloc \- std::malloc

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdlib>
   void* malloc( std::size_t size );

   Allocates size bytes of uninitialized storage.

   If allocation succeeds, returns a pointer to the lowest (first) byte in the
   allocated memory block that is suitably aligned for any scalar type.

   If size is zero, the behavior is implementation defined (null pointer may be
   returned, or some non-null pointer may be returned that may not be used to access
   storage, but has to be passed to std::free)

   The following functions are required to be thread-safe:

     * The library versions of operator new and operator delete
     * User replacement versions of global operator new and operator
       delete
     * std::calloc, std::malloc, std::realloc,                            \fI(since C++11)\fP
       std::aligned_alloc
       \fI(since C++17)\fP, std::free

   Calls to these functions that allocate or deallocate a particular unit
   of storage occur in a single total order, and each such deallocation
   call happens-before the next allocation (if any) in this order.

.SH Parameters

   size - number of bytes to allocate

.SH Return value

   On success, returns the pointer to the beginning of newly allocated memory. To avoid
   a memory leak, the returned pointer must be deallocated with std::free() or
   std::realloc().

   On failure, returns a null pointer.

.SH Notes

   This function does not call constructors or initialize memory in any way. There are
   no ready-to-use smart pointers that could guarantee that the matching deallocation
   function is called. The preferred method of memory allocation in C++ is using
   RAII-ready functions std::make_unique, std::make_shared, container constructors,
   etc, and, in low-level library code, new-expression.

   For loading a large file, file mapping via OS-specific functions, e.g. mmap on POSIX
   or CreateFileMapping(A/W) along with MapViewOfFile on Windows, is preferable to
   allocating a buffer for file reading.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <cstdlib>
 #include <string>
 #include <memory>

 int main()
 {
     constexpr std::size_t size = 4;
     if (auto ptr = reinterpret_cast<std::string*>(
             std::malloc(size * sizeof(std::string))))
     {   try
         {   for (std::size_t i = 0; i < size; ++i)
                 std::construct_at(ptr + i, 5, 'a' + i);
             for (std::size_t i = 0; i < size; ++i)
                 std::cout << "ptr[" << i << "] == " << ptr[i] << '\\n';
             std::destroy_n(ptr, size);
         }
         catch(...) {}
         std::free(ptr);
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 p[0] == aaaaa
 p[1] == bbbbb
 p[2] == ccccc
 p[3] == ddddd

.SH See also

   operator new          allocation functions
   operator new[]        \fI(function)\fP
   get_temporary_buffer  obtains uninitialized storage
   (deprecated in C++17) \fI(function template)\fP
   (removed in C++20)
