.TH std::log2 3 "2018.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::log2 \- std::log2

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cmath>
   float log2( float arg );             \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double log2( double arg );           \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   long double log2( long double arg ); \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP
   double log2( Integral arg );         \fB(4)\fP \fI(since C++11)\fP

   1-3) Computes the binary (base-2) logarithm of arg.
   4) A set of overloads or a function template accepting an argument of any integral
   type. Equivalent to 2) (the argument is cast to double).

.SH Parameters

   arg - value of floating-point or Integral type

.SH Return value

   If no errors occur, the base-2 logarithm of arg (log
   2(arg) or lb(arg)) is returned.

   If a domain error occurs, an implementation-defined value is returned (NaN where
   supported)

   If a pole error occurs, -HUGE_VAL, -HUGE_VALF, or -HUGE_VALL is returned.

.SH Error handling

   Errors are reported as specified in math_errhandling

   Domain error occurs if arg is less than zero.

   Pole error may occur if arg is zero.

   If the implementation supports IEEE floating-point arithmetic (IEC 60559),

     * If the argument is ±0, -∞ is returned and FE_DIVBYZERO is raised.
     * If the argument is 1, +0 is returned
     * If the argument is negative, NaN is returned and FE_INVALID is raised.
     * If the argument is +∞, +∞ is returned
     * If the argument is NaN, NaN is returned

.SH Notes

   For integer arg, the binary logarithm can be interpreted as the zero-based index of
   the most significant 1 bit in the input.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <cerrno>
 #include <cstring>
 #include <cfenv>
 #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS ON
 int main()
 {
     std::cout << "log2(65536) = " << std::log2(65536) << '\\n'
               << "log2(0.125) = " << std::log2(0.125) << '\\n'
               << "log2(0x020f) = " << std::log2(0x020f)
               << " (highest set bit is in position 9)\\n"
               << "base-5 logarithm of 125 = " << std::log2(125)/std::log2(5) << '\\n';
     // special values
     std::cout << "log2(1) = " << std::log2(1) << '\\n'
               << "log2(+Inf) = " << std::log2(INFINITY) << '\\n';
     // error handling
     errno=0; std::feclearexcept(FE_ALL_EXCEPT);
     std::cout << "log2(0) = " << std::log2(0) << '\\n';
     if(errno == ERANGE)
         std::cout << "    errno == ERANGE: " << std::strerror(errno) << '\\n';
     if(std::fetestexcept(FE_DIVBYZERO))
         std::cout << "    FE_DIVBYZERO raised\\n";
 }

.SH Possible output:

 log2(65536) = 16
 log2(0.125) = -3
 log2(0x020f) = 9.04166 (highest set bit is in position 9)
 base-5 logarithm of 125 = 3
 log2\fB(1)\fP = 0
 log2(+Inf) = inf
 log2\fB(0)\fP = -inf
     errno == ERANGE: Numerical result out of range
     FE_DIVBYZERO raised

.SH See also

   log     computes natural (base e) logarithm (to base e) (ln(x))
           \fI(function)\fP
   log10   computes common (base 10) logarithm (log[10](x))
           \fI(function)\fP
   log1p   natural logarithm (to base e) of 1 plus the given number (ln(1+x))
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function)\fP
   exp2    returns 2 raised to the given power (2^x)
   \fI(C++11)\fP \fI(function)\fP
   C documentation for
   log2
