.TH std::fopen 3 "2019.03.28" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::fopen \- std::fopen

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <cstdio>
   std::FILE* fopen( const char* filename, const char* mode );

   Opens a file indicated by filename and returns a file stream associated with that
   file. mode is used to determine the file access mode.

.SH Parameters

   filename - file name to associate the file stream to
              null-terminated character string determining file access mode

                                                                Action if    Action if
              File access     Meaning         Explanation         file         file
              mode string                                        already     does not
                                                                 exists        exist
              "r"          read           Open a file for     read from     failure to
                                          reading             start         open
              "w"          write          Create a file for   destroy       create new
                                          writing             contents
              "a"          append         Append to a file    write to end  create new
              "r+"         read extended  Open a file for     read from     error
                                          read/write          start
   mode     - "w+"         write extended Create a file for   destroy       create new
                                          read/write          contents
              "a+"         append         Open a file for     write to end  create new
                           extended       read/write
              File access mode flag "b" can optionally be specified to open a file in
              binary mode. This flag has no effect on POSIX systems, but on Windows,
              for example, it disables special handling of '\\n' and '\\x1A'.
              On the append file access modes, data is written to the end of the file
              regardless of the current position of the file position indicator.
              File access mode flag "x" can optionally be appended to "w" or "w+"
              specifiers. This flag forces the function to fail if the file exists,
              instead of overwriting it. \fI(C++17)\fP
              The behavior is undefined if the mode is not one of the strings listed
              above. Some implementations define additional supported modes (e.g.
              Windows).

.SH Return value

   If successful, returns a pointer to the object that controls the opened file stream,
   with both eof and error bits cleared. The stream is fully buffered unless filename
   refers to an interactive device.

   On error, returns a null pointer. POSIX requires that errno is set in this case.

.SH Notes

   The format of filename is implementation-defined, and does not necessarily refer to
   a file (e.g. it may be the console or another device accessible through filesystem
   API). On platforms that support them, filename may include absolute or relative
   filesystem path.

   For portable directory and file naming, see C++ filesystem library or
   boost.filesystem

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <cstdio>
 #include <cstdlib>
  
 int main()
 {
     FILE* fp = std::fopen("test.txt", "r");
     if(!fp) {
         std::perror("File opening failed");
         return EXIT_FAILURE;
     }
  
     int c; // note: int, not char, required to handle EOF
     while ((c = std::fgetc(fp)) != EOF) { // standard C I/O file reading loop
        std::putchar(c);
     }
  
     if (std::ferror(fp))
         std::puts("I/O error when reading");
     else if (std::feof(fp))
         std::puts("End of file reached successfully");
  
     std::fclose(fp);
 }

.SH See also

   fclose  closes a file
           \fI(function)\fP 
   fflush  synchronizes an output stream with the actual file
           \fI(function)\fP 
   freopen open an existing stream with a different name
           \fI(function)\fP 
   C documentation for
   fopen
