.TH std::experimental::pmr::resource_adaptor 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::experimental::pmr::resource_adaptor \- std::experimental::pmr::resource_adaptor

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <experimental/memory_resource>
   template < class Alloc >

   class resource_adaptor_imp : public memory_resource; // for
   exposition only
                                                                  (library fundamentals
   template < class Allocator >                                   TS)
   using resource_adaptor = resource_adaptor_imp<
                                typename
   std::allocator_traits<Allocator>::

                                template rebind_alloc<char>>;

   The alias template resource_adaptor adapts the allocator type Allocator with a
   memory_resource interface. The allocator is rebound to a char value type before it
   is actually adapted (using the resource_adaptor_imp class template), so that
   adapting specializations of the same allocator template always yields the same type,
   regardless of the value type the allocator template is originally instantiated with.

   resource_adaptor_imp is a class template whose members are described below. The name
   resource_adaptor_imp is for exposition purposes only and not normative.

   In addition to meeting the Allocator requirements, Allocator must additionally
   satisfy the following requirements:

     * Its pointer shall be identical to value_type*.
     * Its const_pointer shall be identical to value_type const*.
     * Its void_pointer shall be identical to void*.
     * Its const_void_pointer shall be identical to void const*.

   Member types of resource_adaptor_imp

   Member type    Definition
   allocator_type Alloc

   Member functions of resource_adaptor_imp

std::experimental::pmr::resource_adaptor_imp::resource_adaptor_imp

   resource_adaptor_imp() = default;                              \fB(1)\fP (library
                                                                      fundamentals TS)
   resource_adaptor_imp(const resource_adaptor_imp& other) =      \fB(2)\fP (library
   default;                                                           fundamentals TS)
   resource_adaptor_imp(resource_adaptor_imp&& other) = default;  \fB(3)\fP (library
                                                                      fundamentals TS)
   explicit resource_adaptor_imp(const Alloc& a2);                \fB(4)\fP (library
                                                                      fundamentals TS)
   explicit resource_adaptor_imp(Alloc&& a2);                     \fB(5)\fP (library
                                                                      fundamentals TS)

   1) Default constructor. Default constructs the wrapped allocator.
   2) Copy constructor. Copy constructs the wrapped allocator from the allocator
   wrapped by other.
   3) Move constructor. Move constructs the wrapped allocator from the allocator
   wrapped by other.
   4) Initializes the wrapped allocator with a2.
   5) Initializes the wrapped allocator with std::move(a2).

.SH Parameters

   other - another resource_adaptor_imp object to copy or move from
   a2    - another Alloc object to copy or move from

std::experimental::pmr::resource_adaptor_imp::get_allocator

   allocator_type get_allocator() const;  (library fundamentals TS)

   Returns a copy of the wrapped allocator.

std::experimental::pmr::resource_adaptor_imp::operator=

   resource_adaptor_imp& operator=(const                      (library fundamentals TS)
   resource_adaptor_imp& other) = default;

   Defaulted copy assignment operator. Copy assigns the wrapped allocator from that of
   other.

std::experimental::pmr::resource_adaptor_imp::do_allocate

   virtual void* do_allocate(std::size_t bytes, std::size_t   (library fundamentals TS)
   alignment);

   Allocates memory using the allocate member function of the wrapped allocator.

std::experimental::pmr::resource_adaptor_imp::do_deallocate

   virtual void do_deallocate(void *p, std::size_t bytes,     (library fundamentals TS)
   std::size_t alignment);

   Deallocates the storage pointed to by p using the deallocate member function of the
   wrapped allocator. p must have been allocated using the allocate member function of
   an allocator that compares equal to the wrapped allocator, and must not have been
   subsequently deallocated.

std::experimental::pmr::resource_adaptor_imp::do_is_equal

   virtual bool do_is_equal(const memory_resource& other);  (library fundamentals TS)

   Let p be dynamic_cast<const resource_adaptor_imp*>(&other). If p is nullptr, returns
   false. Otherwise, return the result of comparing the allocators wrapped by *p and
   *this using operator==.
