.TH std::ranges::views::adjacent_transform,std::ranges::adjacent_transform_view, 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::views::adjacent_transform,std::ranges::adjacent_transform_view, \- std::ranges::views::adjacent_transform,std::ranges::adjacent_transform_view,

.SH Synopsis

   Defined in header <ranges>
   template< ranges::forward_range V, std::move_constructible F,
   std::size_t N >

     requires ranges::view<V> && (N > 0) && std::is_object_v<F> &&
              std::regular_invocable<F&,                                        (since
                  /*REPEAT*/(ranges::range_reference_t<V>, N)...> &&        \fB(1)\fP C++23)
              /*can-reference*/<std::invoke_result_t<F&,
                  /*REPEAT*/(ranges::range_reference_t<V>, N)...>>
   class adjacent_transform_view

       : public ranges::view_interface<adjacent_transform_view<V, F, N>>
   namespace views {

   template< std::size_t N >                                                    (since
       inline constexpr /* unspecified */ adjacent_transform = /*           \fB(2)\fP C++23)
   unspecified */;

   }
   namespace views {
                                                                                (since
       inline constexpr auto pairwise_transform = adjacent_transform<2>;    \fB(3)\fP C++23)

   }
   Call signature
   template< ranges::viewable_range R, class F >
                                                                                (since
       requires /* see below */                                                 C++23)

   constexpr ranges::view auto adjacent_transform<N>( R&& r, F&& fun );
   template< class F >                                                          (since
   constexpr /*range adaptor closure*/ adjacent_transform<N>( F&& fun );        C++23)

   1) adjacent_transform_view is a range adaptor that takes a view and an invocable
   object fun, and produces a view whose i^th element is a value that is the result of
   applying fun to each element in [i, i + N) of the original view. F always has arity
   N.
   Let S be the size of the original view. Then the size of produced view is:
     * S - N + 1, if S >= N,
     * 0 otherwise, and the resulting view is empty.
   2) The name views::adjacent_transform<N> denotes a RangeAdaptorObject. Given
   subexpressions e and f, and a constant expression N, the expression
   views::adjacent_transform<N>(e, f) is expression-equivalent to:
     * ((void)e, views::zip_transform(f)), if N is equal to 0 (except that the
       evaluations of e and f are indeterminately sequenced),
     * adjacent_transform_view<views::all_t<decltype((e))>,
       std::decay_t<decltype((f))>, N>(e, f) otherwise.
   3) The name views::pairwise_transform denotes a RangeAdaptorObject that behaves
   exactly as views::adjacent_transform<2>. In particular, the arity of F is also 2 and
   fun is a binary invocable object.

   adjacent_transform_view always models forward_range, and models bidirectional_range,
   random_access_range, or sized_range, if adapted view type models the corresponding
   concept.

.SH Member functions

   constructor   constructs a adjacent_transform_view
   (C++23)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   begin         returns an iterator to the beginning
   (C++23)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   end           returns an iterator or a sentinel to the end
   (C++23)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   size          returns the number of elements. Provided only if the underlying
   (C++23)       (adapted) range satisfies sized_range.
                 \fI(public member function)\fP
         Inherited from std::ranges::view_interface
   empty         returns whether the derived view is empty. Provided if it satisfies
   (C++20)       sized_range or forward_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   cbegin        returns a constant iterator to the beginning of the range.
   (C++23)       \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   cend          returns a sentinel for the constant iterator of the range.
   (C++23)       \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   operator bool returns whether the derived view is not empty. Provided if
   (C++20)       ranges::empty is applicable to it.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   front         returns the first element in the derived view. Provided if it
   (C++20)       satisfies forward_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   back          returns the last element in the derived view. Provided if it satisfies
   (C++20)       bidirectional_range and common_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP
   operator[]    returns the n^th element in the derived view. Provided if it satisfies
   (C++20)       random_access_range.
                 \fI(public member function of std::ranges::view_interface<D>)\fP

   Deduction guides

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Member types

   Member type              Definition
   InnerView (private)      ranges::adjacent_view<V, N>.
                            (exposition-only member type*)
                              * ranges::iterator_t<const InnerView>, if Const is true.
   inner_iterator (private)     Otherwise,
                              * ranges::iterator_t<InnerView>.
                                (exposition-only member type*)
                              * ranges::sentinel_t<const InnerView>, if Const is true.
   inner_sentinel (private)     Otherwise,
                              * ranges::sentinel_t<InnerView>.
                                (exposition-only member type*)

   Data members

   Member object    Definition
   fun_ (private)   /*movable-box*/<F>
                    (exposition-only member object*)
   inner_ (private) ranges::adjacent_view<V,N>
                    (exposition-only member object*)

   Nested classes

   iterator the iterator type
   (C++23)  (exposition-only member class template*)
   sentinel the sentinel type used when adjacent_transform_view is not a common_range
   (C++23)  (exposition-only member class template*)

.SH Notes

    Feature-test macro   Value    Std                 Feature
                                        std::ranges::zip_view,
   __cpp_lib_ranges_zip 202110L (C++23) std::ranges::zip_transform_view,
                                        std::ranges::adjacent_view,
                                        std::ranges::adjacent_transform_view

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <array>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <ranges>

 int main()
 {
     constexpr static std::array data{1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6};
     constexpr int window{3};

     auto Fun = [](auto... ints) { return (... + ints); };
     // Alternatively, the Fun could be any ternary (if window == 3) callable, e.g.:
     // auto Fun = [](int x, int y, int z) { return x + y + z; };

     constexpr auto view = data | std::views::adjacent_transform<window>(Fun);

     static_assert(
         view.size() == (data.size() - window + 1)
         && std::array{6, 9, 12, 15}
         == std::array{view[0], view[1], view[2], view[3]}
         && view[0] == Fun(data[0], data[1], data[2])
         && view[1] == Fun(data[1], data[2], data[3])
         && view[2] == Fun(data[2], data[3], data[4])
         && view[3] == Fun(data[3], data[4], data[5])
     );

     for (int x : view)
         std::cout << x << ' ';
     std::cout << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 6 9 12 15

.SH References

     * C++23 standard (ISO/IEC 14882:2023):

     * 26.7.27 Adjacent transform view [range.adjacent.transform]

.SH See also

   ranges::adjacent_view      a view consisting of tuples of references to adjacent
   views::adjacent            elements of the adapted view
   (C++23)                    \fI(class template)\fP (range adaptor object)
   ranges::transform_view     a view of a sequence that applies a transformation
   views::transform           function to each element
   (C++20)                    \fI(class template)\fP (range adaptor object)
   ranges::zip_transform_view a view consisting of tuples of results of application of
   views::zip_transform       a transformation function to corresponding elements of
   (C++23)                    the adapted views
                              \fI(class template)\fP (customization point object)
   ranges::transform          applies a function to a range of elements
   (C++20)                    (niebloid)
