.TH std::ranges::end 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::end \- std::ranges::end

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <ranges>
   inline namespace /*unspecified*/ {
                                                                   \fI(since C++20)\fP
   inline constexpr /*unspecified*/ end = /*unspecified*/;         (customization point
                                                                   object)
   }
   Call signature
   template< class T >

   requires /* see below */                                        \fI(since C++20)\fP

   constexpr std::sentinel_for<ranges::iterator_t<T>> auto end(
   T&& t );

   Returns a sentinel indicating the end of a range.

   range-begin-end.svg

   Let t be an object of type T. If the argument is an lvalue or
   ranges::enable_borrowed_range<std::remove_cv_t<T>> is true, then a call to
   ranges::end is expression-equivalent to:

    1. t + std::extent_v<T> if t has an array type of known bound.

                    If std::remove_all_extents_t<std::remove_reference_t<T>> is
                    incomplete, then the call to ranges::end is ill-formed, no
                    diagnostic required.

    2. Otherwise, t.end() converted to its decayed type, if that expression with
       conversion is valid, and its converted type models
       std::sentinel_for<ranges::iterator_t<T>>.
    3. Otherwise, end(t) converted to its decayed type, if t has a class or enumeration
       type, the aforementioned unqualified call with conversion is valid, and its
       converted type models std::sentinel_for<ranges::iterator_t<T>>, where the
       overload resolution is performed with the following candidates:

          * any declarations of end found by argument-dependent lookup.
          * void end(auto&) = delete;
          * void end(const auto&) = delete;

   In all other cases, a call to ranges::end is ill-formed, which can result in
   substitution failure when the call to ranges::end appears in the immediate context
   of a template instantiation.

  Expression-equivalent

   Expression e is expression-equivalent to expression f, if e and f have the same
   effects, either are both potentially-throwing or are both not potentially-throwing
   (i.e. noexcept(e) == noexcept(f)), and either are both constant subexpressions or
   are both not constant subexpressions.

  Customization point objects

   The name ranges::end denotes a customization point object, which is a const function
   object of a literal semiregular class type. For exposition purposes, the
   cv-unqualified version of its type is denoted as __end_fn.

   All instances of __end_fn are equal. The effects of invoking different instances of
   type __end_fn on the same arguments are equivalent, regardless of whether the
   expression denoting the instance is an lvalue or rvalue, and is const-qualified or
   not (however, a volatile-qualified instance is not required to be invocable). Thus,
   ranges::end can be copied freely and its copies can be used interchangeably.

   Given a set of types Args..., if std::declval<Args>()... meet the requirements for
   arguments to ranges::end above, __end_fn models std::invocable<__end_fn, Args...>,
   std::invocable<const __end_fn, Args...>, std::invocable<__end_fn&, Args...>, and
   std::invocable<const __end_fn&, Args...>. Otherwise, no function call operator of
   __end_fn participates in overload resolution.

.SH Notes

   If the argument is an rvalue (i.e. T is an object type) and
   ranges::enable_borrowed_range<std::remove_cv_t<T>> is false, or if it is of an array
   type of unknown bound, the call to ranges::end is ill-formed, which also results in
   substitution failure.

   If ranges::end(std::forward<T>(t)) is valid, then
   decltype(ranges::end(std::forward<T>(t))) and
   decltype(ranges::begin(std::forward<T>(t))) model std::sentinel_for in all cases,
   while T models std::ranges::range.

   The C++20 standard requires that if the underlying end function call returns a
   prvalue, the return value is move-constructed from the materialized temporary
   object. All implementations directly return the prvalue instead. The requirement is
   corrected by the post-C++20 proposal P0849R8 to match the implementations.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <ranges>
 #include <vector>

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> v = { 3, 1, 4 };
     namespace ranges = std::ranges;
     if (ranges::find(v, 5) != ranges::end(v)) {
         std::cout << "found a 5 in vector v!\\n";
     }

     int a[] = { 5, 10, 15 };
     if (ranges::find(a, 5) != ranges::end(a)) {
         std::cout << "found a 5 in array a!\\n";
     }
 }

.SH Output:

 found a 5 in array a!

.SH See also

   ranges::cend  returns a sentinel indicating the end of a read-only range
   (C++20)       (customization point object)
   ranges::begin returns an iterator to the beginning of a range
   (C++20)       (customization point object)
   end
   cend          returns an iterator to the end of a container or array
   \fI(C++11)\fP       \fI(function template)\fP
   \fI(C++14)\fP
