.TH std::ranges::make_heap 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::make_heap \- std::ranges::make_heap

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   Call signature
   template< std::random_access_iterator I, std::sentinel_for<I> S,

             class Comp = ranges::less, class Proj = std::identity >
   requires std::sortable<I, Comp, Proj>                              \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   constexpr I

       make_heap( I first, S last, Comp comp = {}, Proj proj = {} );
   template< ranges::random_access_range R, class Comp =
   ranges::less,

             class Proj = std::identity >                             \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   requires std::sortable<ranges::iterator_t<R>, Comp, Proj>
   constexpr ranges::borrowed_iterator_t<R>

       make_heap( R&& r, Comp comp = {}, Proj proj = {} );

   Constructs a max heap in the range [first, last).

   1) Elements are compared using the given binary comparison function comp and
   projection object proj.
   2) Same as \fB(1)\fP, but uses r as the range, as if using ranges::begin(r) as first and
   ranges::end(r) as last.

   The function-like entities described on this page are niebloids, that is:

     * Explicit template argument lists cannot be specified when calling any of them.
     * None of them are visible to argument-dependent lookup.
     * When any of them are found by normal unqualified lookup as the name to the left
       of the function-call operator, argument-dependent lookup is inhibited.

   In practice, they may be implemented as function objects, or with special compiler
   extensions.

.SH Parameters

   first, last - the range of elements to make the heap from
   r           - the range of elements to make the heap from
   pred        - predicate to apply to the projected elements
   proj        - projection to apply to the elements

.SH Return value

   An iterator equal to last.

.SH Complexity

   Given N = ranges::distance(first, last), at most \\(\\scriptsize 3\\cdot N\\)3*N
   comparisons and \\(\\scriptsize 6\\cdot N\\)6*N projections.

.SH Notes

   A max heap is a range of elements [f, l), arranged with respect to comparator comp
   and projection proj, that has the following properties:

     * With N = l - f, p = f[(i - 1) / 2], and q = f[i], for all 0 < i < N, the
       expression std::invoke(comp, std::invoke(proj, p), std::invoke(proj, q))
       evaluates to false.
     * A new element can be added using ranges::push_heap, in \\(\\scriptsize
       \\mathcal{O}(\\log N)\\)ğ“(log N) time.
     * The first element can be removed using ranges::pop_heap, in \\(\\scriptsize
       \\mathcal{O}(\\log N)\\)ğ“(log N) time.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <cmath>
 #include <functional>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <vector>

 void out(const auto& what, int n = 1)
 {
     while (n-- > 0)
         std::cout << what;
 }

 void print(auto rem, auto const& v)
 {
     out(rem);
     for (auto e : v)
         out(e), out(' ');
     out('\\n');
 }

 void draw_heap(auto const& v)
 {
     auto bails = [](int n, int w)
     {
         auto b = [](int w) { out("â”Œ"), out("â”€", w), out("â”´"), out("â”€", w), out("â”"); };
         if (!(n /= 2))
             return;
         for (out(' ', w); n-- > 0;)
             b(w), out(' ', w + w + 1);
         out('\\n');
     };

     auto data = [](int n, int w, auto& first, auto last)
     {
         for (out(' ', w); n-- > 0 && first != last; ++first)
             out(*first), out(' ', w + w + 1);
         out('\\n');
     };

     auto tier = [&](int t, int m, auto& first, auto last)
     {
         const int n{1 << t};
         const int w{(1 << (m - t - 1)) - 1};
         bails(n, w), data(n, w, first, last);
     };

     const int m{static_cast<int>(std::ceil(std::log2(1 + v.size())))};
     auto first{v.cbegin()};
     for (int i{}; i != m; ++i)
         tier(i, m, first, v.cend());
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::vector h{1, 6, 1, 8, 0, 3, 3, 9, 8, 8, 7, 4, 9, 8, 9};
     print("source: ", h);

     std::ranges::make_heap(h);
     print("\\n" "max-heap: ", h);
     draw_heap(h);

     std::ranges::make_heap(h, std::greater{});
     print("\\n" "min-heap: ", h);
     draw_heap(h);
 }

.SH Output:

 source: 1 6 1 8 0 3 3 9 8 8 7 4 9 8 9

 max-heap: 9 8 9 8 8 4 9 6 1 0 7 1 3 8 3
        9
    â”Œâ”€â”€â”€â”´â”€â”€â”€â”
    8       9
  â”Œâ”€â”´â”€â”   â”Œâ”€â”´â”€â”
  8   8   4   9
 â”Œâ”´â” â”Œâ”´â” â”Œâ”´â” â”Œâ”´â”
 6 1 0 7 1 3 8 3

 min-heap: 0 1 1 8 6 3 3 9 8 8 7 4 9 8 9
        0
    â”Œâ”€â”€â”€â”´â”€â”€â”€â”
    1       1
  â”Œâ”€â”´â”€â”   â”Œâ”€â”´â”€â”
  8   6   3   3
 â”Œâ”´â” â”Œâ”´â” â”Œâ”´â” â”Œâ”´â”
 9 8 8 7 4 9 8 9

.SH See also

   ranges::is_heap       checks if the given range is a max heap
   (C++20)               (niebloid)
   ranges::is_heap_until finds the largest subrange that is a max heap
   (C++20)               (niebloid)
   ranges::push_heap     adds an element to a max heap
   (C++20)               (niebloid)
   ranges::pop_heap      removes the largest element from a max heap
   (C++20)               (niebloid)
   ranges::sort_heap     turns a max heap into a range of elements sorted in ascending
   (C++20)               order
                         (niebloid)
   make_heap             creates a max heap out of a range of elements
                         \fI(function template)\fP
