.TH std::set::swap 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::set::swap \- std::set::swap

.SH Synopsis
   void swap( set& other );                            \fI(until C++17)\fP
   void swap( set& other ) noexcept(/* see below */);  \fI(since C++17)\fP

   Exchanges the contents of the container with those of other. Does not invoke any
   move, copy, or swap operations on individual elements.

   All iterators and references remain valid. The past-the-end iterator is invalidated.

   The Compare objects must be Swappable, and they are exchanged using unqualified call
   to non-member swap.

   If std::allocator_traits<allocator_type>::propagate_on_container_swap::value
   is true, then the allocators are exchanged using an unqualified call to       (since
   non-member swap. Otherwise, they are not swapped (and if get_allocator() !=   C++11)
   other.get_allocator(), the behavior is undefined).

.SH Parameters

   other - container to exchange the contents with

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   Any exception thrown by the swap of the Compare objects.          \fI(until C++17)\fP
   noexcept specification:
   noexcept(std::allocator_traits<Allocator>::is_always_equal::value \fI(since C++17)\fP
   && std::is_nothrow_swappable<Compare>::value)

.SH Complexity

   Constant.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <functional>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <set>

 template<class Os, class Co> Os& operator<<(Os& os, const Co& co) {
     os << "{";
     for (auto const& i : co) { os << ' ' << i; }
     return os << " } ";
 }

 int main()
 {
     std::set<int> a1{3, 1, 3, 2}, a2{5, 4, 5};

     auto it1 = std::next(a1.begin());
     auto it2 = std::next(a2.begin());

     const int& ref1 = *(a1.begin());
     const int& ref2 = *(a2.begin());

     std::cout << a1 << a2 << *it1 << ' ' << *it2 << ' ' << ref1 << ' ' << ref2 << '\\n';
     a1.swap(a2);
     std::cout << a1 << a2 << *it1 << ' ' << *it2 << ' ' << ref1 << ' ' << ref2 << '\\n';

     // Note that every iterator referring to an element in one container before the swap
     // refers to the same element in the other container after the swap. Same is true
     // for references.

     struct Cmp : std::less<int> {
         int id{};
         Cmp(int i) : id{i} { }
     };

     std::set<int, Cmp> s1{ {2, 2, 1, 1}, Cmp{6} }, s2{ {4, 4, 3, 3}, Cmp{9} };

     std::cout << s1 << s2 << s1.key_comp().id << ' ' << s2.key_comp().id << '\\n';
     s1.swap(s2);
     std::cout << s1 << s2 << s1.key_comp().id << ' ' << s2.key_comp().id << '\\n';

     // So, comparator objects (Cmp) are also exchanged after the swap.
 }

.SH Output:

 { 1 2 3 } { 4 5 } 2 5 1 4
 { 4 5 } { 1 2 3 } 2 5 1 4
 { 1 2 } { 3 4 } 6 9
 { 3 4 } { 1 2 } 9 6

.SH See also

   std::swap(std::set) specializes the std::swap algorithm
                       \fI(function template)\fP
