.TH std::ranges::chunk_view::begin 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::chunk_view::begin \- std::ranges::chunk_view::begin

.SH Synopsis
   V models only input_range
   constexpr __outer_iterator begin();                                \fB(1)\fP (since C++23)
   V models forward_range
   constexpr auto begin() requires (!__simple_view<V>);               \fB(2)\fP (since C++23)
   constexpr auto begin() const requires ranges::forward_range<const  \fB(3)\fP (since C++23)
   V>;

   Returns an iterator to the first element of the chunk_view.

   Let base_ denote the underlying view.
   1) Available only if V models input_range. Equivalent to:

 current_ = ranges::begin(base_);
 remainder_ = n_;
 return __outer_iterator(*this);

   current_, remainder_, and n_ are underlying exposition only data members of
   chunk_view.
   2) Available if V models forward_range. Equivalent to: return iterator<false>(this,
   ranges::begin(base_));, where iterator is exposition only nested class.
   3) Available if V models forward_range. Equivalent to: return iterator<true>(this,
   ranges::begin(base_));, where iterator is exposition only nested class.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   An iterator to the first element of the chunk_view, as described above.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   end           returns an iterator or a sentinel to the end
   (C++23)       \fI(public member function)\fP
   ranges::begin returns an iterator to the beginning of a range
   (C++20)       (customization point object)

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
