.TH std::recursive_mutex::try_lock 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::recursive_mutex::try_lock \- std::recursive_mutex::try_lock

.SH Synopsis
   bool try_lock();  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   Tries to lock the mutex. Returns immediately. On successful lock acquisition returns
   true, otherwise returns false.

   This function is allowed to fail spuriously and return false even if the mutex is
   not currently locked by any other thread.

   A thread may call try_lock on a recursive mutex repeatedly. Successful calls to
   try_lock increment the ownership count: the mutex will only be released after the
   thread makes a matching number of calls to unlock.

   The maximum number of levels of ownership is unspecified. A call to try_lock will
   return false if this number is exceeded.

   Prior unlock() operation on the same mutex synchronizes-with (as defined in
   std::memory_order) this operation if it returns true. Note that prior lock() does
   not synchronize with this operation if it returns false.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   true if the lock was acquired successfully, otherwise false.

.SH Exceptions

   Throws nothing.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <mutex>

 int main()
 {
     std::recursive_mutex test;
     if (test.try_lock()) {
         std::cout << "lock acquired\\n";
         test.unlock();
     } else {
         std::cout << "lock not acquired\\n";
     }

     test.lock();
     // non-recursive mutex would return false from try_lock now
     if (test.try_lock()) {
         std::cout << "lock acquired\\n";
         test.unlock();
     } else {
         std::cout << "lock not acquired\\n";
     }
     test.unlock();
 }

.SH Output:

 lock acquired
 lock acquired

.SH See also

   lock   locks the mutex, blocks if the mutex is not available
          \fI(public member function)\fP
   unlock unlocks the mutex
          \fI(public member function)\fP
