.TH std::unordered_set::emplace 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::unordered_set::emplace \- std::unordered_set::emplace

.SH Synopsis
   template< class... Args >                             \fI(since C++11)\fP
   std::pair<iterator, bool> emplace( Args&&... args );

   Inserts a new element into the container constructed in-place with the given args,
   if there is no element with the key in the container.

   The constructor of the new element is called with exactly the same arguments as
   supplied to emplace, forwarded via std::forward<Args>(args).... The element may be
   constructed even if there already is an element with the key in the container, in
   which case the newly constructed element will be destroyed immediately.

   Careful use of emplace allows the new element to be constructed while avoiding
   unnecessary copy or move operations.

   If after the operation the new number of elements is greater than old
   max_load_factor() * bucket_count() a rehashing takes place.
   If rehashing occurs (due to the insertion), all iterators are invalidated. Otherwise
   (no rehashing), iterators are not invalidated.

.SH Parameters

   args - arguments to forward to the constructor of the element

.SH Return value

   A pair consisting of an iterator to the inserted element (or to the element that
   prevented the insertion) and a bool value set to true if and only if the insertion
   took place.

.SH Exceptions

   If an exception is thrown for any reason, this function has no effect (strong
   exception safety guarantee).

.SH Complexity

   Amortized constant on average, worst case linear in the size of the container.

.SH Example

    This section is incomplete
    Reason: no example

.SH See also

   emplace_hint constructs elements in-place using a hint
                \fI(public member function)\fP
                inserts elements
   insert       or nodes
                \fI(since C++17)\fP
                \fI(public member function)\fP

.SH Category:
     * Todo no example
