.TH std::vector::rend,std::vector::crend 3 "2021.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::vector::rend,std::vector::crend \- std::vector::rend,std::vector::crend

.SH Synopsis
   reverse_iterator rend();                                  \fI(until C++11)\fP
   reverse_iterator rend() noexcept;                         \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                             \fI(until C++20)\fP
   constexpr reverse_iterator rend() noexcept;               \fI(since C++20)\fP
   const_reverse_iterator rend() const;                      \fI(until C++11)\fP
   const_reverse_iterator rend() const noexcept;             \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                             \fI(until C++20)\fP
   constexpr const_reverse_iterator rend() const noexcept;   \fI(since C++20)\fP
   const_reverse_iterator crend() const noexcept;            \fI(since C++11)\fP
                                                             \fI(until C++20)\fP
   constexpr const_reverse_iterator crend() const noexcept;  \fI(since C++20)\fP

   Returns a reverse iterator to the element following the last element of the reversed
   vector. It corresponds to the element preceding the first element of the
   non-reversed vector. This element acts as a placeholder, attempting to access it
   results in undefined behavior.

   range-rbegin-rend.svg

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   Reverse iterator to the element following the last element.

.SH Complexity

   Constant.

.SH Example


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <numeric>
 #include <string>
 #include <vector>

 int main()
 {
     std::vector<int> nums {1, 2, 4, 8, 16};
     std::vector<std::string> fruits {"orange", "apple", "raspberry"};
     std::vector<char> empty;

     // Print vector.
     std::for_each(nums.rbegin(), nums.rend(), [](const int n) { std::cout << n << ' '; });
     std::cout << '\\n';

     // Sums all integers in the vector nums (if any), printing only the result.
     std::cout << "Sum of nums: "
               << std::accumulate(nums.rbegin(), nums.rend(), 0) << '\\n';

     // Prints the first fruit in the vector fruits, checking if there is any.
     if (!fruits.empty())
         std::cout << "First fruit: " << *fruits.rbegin() << '\\n';

     if (empty.rbegin() == empty.rend())
         std::cout << "vector 'empty' is indeed empty.\\n";
 }

.SH Output:

 16 8 4 2 1
 Sum of nums: 31
 First fruit: raspberry
 vector 'empty' is indeed empty.

.SH See also

   rbegin  returns a reverse iterator to the beginning
   crbegin \fI(public member function)\fP
   \fI(C++11)\fP
