.TH std::filesystem::rename 3 "2017.04.02" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::filesystem::rename \- std::filesystem::rename

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <filesystem>
   void rename(const std::filesystem::path& old_p,

               const std::filesystem::path& new_p);
   void rename(const std::filesystem::path& old_p,   \fI(since C++17)\fP
               const std::filesystem::path& new_p,

               std::error_code& ec);

   Moves or renames the filesystem object identified by old_p to new_p as if by the
   POSIX rename:

     * If old_p is a non-directory file, then new_p must be one of:

     * the same file as old_p or a hardlink to it: nothing is done in this case
     * existing non-directory file: new_p is first deleted, then, without allowing
       other processes to observe new_p as deleted, the pathname new_p is linked to the
       file and old_p is unlinked from the file. Write permissions are required to both
       the directory that contains old_p and the directory that contains new_p.
     * non-existing file in an existing directory: The pathname new_p is linked to the
       file and old_p is unlinked from the file. Write permissions are required to both
       the directory that contains old_p and the directory that contains new_p.

     * If old_p is a directory, then new_p must be one of:

     * the same directory as old_p or a hardlink to it: nothing is done in this case
     * existing directory: new_p is deleted if empty on POSIX systems, but this may be
       an error on other systems. If not an error, then new_p is first deleted, then,
       without allowing other processes to observe new_p as deleted, the pathname new_p
       is linked to the directory and old_p is unlinked from the directory. Write
       permissions are required to both the directory that contains old_p and the
       directory that contains new_p.
     * non-existing directory, not ending with a directory separator, and whose parent
       directory exists: The pathname new_p is linked to the directory and old_p is
       unlinked from the directory. Write permissions are required to both the
       directory that contains old_p and the directory that contains new_p.

     * Symlinks are not followed: if old_p is a symlink, it is itself renamed, not its
       target. If new_p is an existing symlink, it is itself erased, not its target.

   Rename fails if

     * new_p ends with dot or with dot-dot
     * new_p names a non-existing directory ending with a directory separator
     * old_p is a directory which is an ancestor of new_p

.SH Parameters

   old_p - path to move or rename
   new_p - target path for the move/rename operation
   ec    - out-parameter for error reporting in the non-throwing overload

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Exceptions

   The overload that does not take a std::error_code& parameter throws filesystem_error
   on underlying OS API errors, constructed with old_p as the first argument, new_p as
   the second argument, and the OS error code as the error code argument.
   std::bad_alloc may be thrown if memory allocation fails. The overload taking a
   std::error_code& parameter sets it to the OS API error code if an OS API call fails,
   and executes ec.clear() if no errors occur. This overload has
   noexcept specification:  
   noexcept
     

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <fstream>
 #include <filesystem>
 namespace fs = std::filesystem;
 int main()
 {
     fs::path p = fs::current_path() / "sandbox";
     fs::create_directories(p/"from");
     std::ofstream(p/"from/file1.txt").put('a');
     fs::create_directory(p/"to");
  
 //    fs::rename(p/"from/file1.txt", p/"to/"); // error: to is a directory
     fs::rename(p/"from/file1.txt", p/"to/file2.txt"); // OK
 //    fs::rename(p/"from", p/"to"); // error: to is not empty
     fs::rename(p/"from", p/"to/subdir"); // OK
  
     fs::remove_all(p);
 }

.SH See also

   rename     renames a file
              \fI(function)\fP 
   remove     removes a file or empty directory
   remove_all removes a file or directory and all its contents, recursively
   \fI(C++17)\fP    \fI(function)\fP 
   \fI(C++17)\fP

.SH Category:

     * unconditionally noexcept
