.TH std::move_only_function::operator= 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::move_only_function::operator= \- std::move_only_function::operator=

.SH Synopsis
   move_only_function& operator=( move_only_function&& other );       \fB(1)\fP (since C++23)
   move_only_function& operator=( const move_only_function& ) =       \fB(2)\fP (since C++23)
   delete;
   move_only_function& operator=( std::nullptr_t ) noexcept;          \fB(3)\fP (since C++23)
   template< class F >                                                \fB(4)\fP (since C++23)
   move_only_function& operator=( F&& f );

   Assigns a new target to std::move_only_function or destroys its target.

   1) Moves the target of other to *this or destroys the target of *this (if any) if
   other is empty, by auto(std::move(other)).swap(*this). other is in a valid state
   with an unspecified value after move assignment.
   2) Copy assignment operator is deleted. std::move_only_function does not satisfy
   CopyAssignable.
   3) Destroys the current target if it exists. *this is empty after the call.
   4) Sets the target of *this to the callable f, or destroys the current target if f
   is a null function pointer, a null pointer to member function, or an empty
   std::move_only_function, as if by executing
   move_only_function(std::forward<F>(f)).swap(*this);. This overload participates in
   overload resolution only if the constructor of move_only_function from F
   participates in overload resolution. The program is ill-formed or has undefined
   behavior if the selected constructor call is ill-formed or has undefined behavior.

.SH Parameters

   other - another std::move_only_function object to move the target of
   f     - a callable object to initialize the new target with

.SH Return value

   *this

.SH Notes

   It is intentional not to require the move assignment operator to be noexcept to
   leave room for an allocator-aware move_only_function in future.

   move_only_function can be assigned from std::in_place_type<Fn> given it can be
   constructed from that argument.

.SH See also

   operator= assigns a new target
             \fI(public member function of std::function<R(Args...)>)\fP
