.TH std::ranges::view,std::ranges::enable_view,std::ranges::view_base 3 "2022.03.29" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::ranges::view,std::ranges::enable_view,std::ranges::view_base \- std::ranges::view,std::ranges::enable_view,std::ranges::view_base

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <ranges>
   template<class T>
   concept view = ranges::range<T> && std::movable<T> &&              \fB(1)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP
   ranges::enable_view<T>;
   template<class T>

   inline constexpr bool enable_view =                                \fB(2)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   std::derived_from<T, view_base> ||
   /*is-derived-from-view-interface*/<T>;
   struct view_base { };                                              \fB(3)\fP \fI(since C++20)\fP

   1) The view concept specifies the requirements of a range type that has suitable
   semantic properties for use in constructing range adaptor pipelines.
   2) The enable_view variable template is used to indicate whether a range is a view.
   /*is-derived-from-view-interface*/<T> is true if and only if T has exactly one
   public base class ranges::view_interface<U> for some type U, and T has no base
   classes of type ranges::view_interface<V> for any other type V.
   Users may specialize enable_view to true for cv-unqualified program-defined types
   which model view, and false for types which do not. Such specializations must be
   usable in constant expressions and have type const bool.
   3) Deriving from view_base enables range types to model view.

  Semantic requirements

   1) T models view only if:

     * move construction of T has constant time complexity, and
     * if \\(\\scriptsize N\\)N copies and/or moves are made from a T object holding
       \\(\\scriptsize M\\)M elements, then these \\(\\scriptsize N\\)N objects have
       \\(\\scriptsize \\mathcal{O}{(N+M)}\\)𝓞(N+M) destruction (which implies that a
       moved-from view object has \\(\\scriptsize \\mathcal{O}{\fB(1)\fP}\\)𝓞(1) destruction),
       and
     * either std::copy_constructible<T> is false, or copy construction of T has
       constant time complexity, and
     * either std::copyable<T> is false, or copy assignment of T has no more time
       complexity than destruction followed by copy construction.

.SH Notes

   Examples of view types are:

     * A range type that wraps a pair of iterators, e.g., std::ranges::subrange<I>.
     * A range type that holds its elements by std::shared_ptr and shares ownership
       with all its copies.
     * A range type that generates its elements on demand, e.g.,
       std::ranges::iota_view.

   A copyable container such as std::vector<std::string> generally does not meet the
   semantic requirements of view since copying the container copies all of the
   elements, which cannot be done in constant time.

   While views were originally described as cheaply copyable and non-owning ranges, a
   type is not required to be copyable or non-owning for it to model view. However, it
   must still be cheap to copy (if it is copyable), move, assign, and destroy, so that
   range adaptors will not have unexpected complexity.

   By default, a type modeling movable and range is considered a view if it is publicly
   and unambiguously derived from view_base, or exactly one specialization of
   std::ranges::view_interface.

  Defect reports

   The following behavior-changing defect reports were applied retroactively to
   previously published C++ standards.

      DR    Applied to              Behavior as published              Correct behavior
   P2325R3  C++20      view required default_initializable             does not require
   LWG 3549 C++20      enable_view did not detect inheritance from     detects
                       view_interface
   P2415R2  C++20      the restriction on the time complexity of       relaxed
                       destruction was too strict
