.TH std::next_permutation 3 "2024.06.10" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::next_permutation \- std::next_permutation

.SH Synopsis
   Defined in header <algorithm>
   template< class BidirIt >                                \fB(1)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   bool next_permutation( BidirIt first, BidirIt last );
   template< class BidirIt, class Compare >
   bool next_permutation( BidirIt first, BidirIt last,      \fB(2)\fP (constexpr since C++20)
   Compare comp );

   Permutes the range [first, last) into the next permutation. Returns true if such a
   “next permutation” exists; otherwise transforms the range into the lexicographically
   first permutation (as if by std::sort) and returns false.

   1) The set of all permutations is ordered lexicographically with respect to
   operator<
   \fI(until C++20)\fP
   std::less{}
   \fI(since C++20)\fP.
   2) The set of all permutations is ordered lexicographically with respect to comp.

   If
   the type of *first is not Swappable
   \fI(until C++11)\fP
   BidirIt is not ValueSwappable
   \fI(since C++11)\fP, the behavior is undefined.

.SH Parameters

   first, last -  the range of elements to permute
                  comparison function object (i.e. an object that satisfies the
                  requirements of Compare) which returns true if the first argument is
                  less than the second.

                  The signature of the comparison function should be equivalent to the
                  following:

                  bool cmp(const Type1& a, const Type2& b);
   comp        -
                  While the signature does not need to have const&, the function must
                  not modify the objects passed to it and must be able to accept all
                  values of type (possibly const) Type1 and Type2 regardless of value
                  category (thus, Type1& is not allowed
                  , nor is Type1 unless for Type1 a move is equivalent to a copy
                  \fI(since C++11)\fP).
                  The types Type1 and Type2 must be such that an object of type BidirIt
                  can be dereferenced and then implicitly converted to both of them.
.SH Type requirements
   -
   BidirIt must meet the requirements of LegacyBidirectionalIterator.

.SH Return value

   true if the new permutation is lexicographically greater than the old. false if the
   last permutation was reached and the range was reset to the first permutation.

.SH Complexity

   Given \\(\\scriptsize N\\)N as std::distance(first, last):

   1,2) At most \\(\\scriptsize \\frac{N}{2}\\)

   N
   2

   swaps.

.SH Exceptions

   Any exceptions thrown from iterator operations or the element swap.

.SH Possible implementation

   template<class BidirIt>
   bool next_permutation(BidirIt first, BidirIt last)
   {
       auto r_first = std::make_reverse_iterator(last);
       auto r_last = std::make_reverse_iterator(first);
       auto left = std::is_sorted_until(r_first, r_last);

       if (left != r_last)
       {
           auto right = std::upper_bound(r_first, left, *left);
           std::iter_swap(left, right);
       }

       std::reverse(left.base(), last);
       return left != r_last;
   }

.SH Notes

   Averaged over the entire sequence of permutations, typical implementations use about
   3 comparisons and 1.5 swaps per call.

   Implementations (e.g. MSVC STL) may enable vectorization when the iterator type
   satisfies LegacyContiguousIterator and swapping its value type calls neither
   non-trivial special member function nor ADL-found swap.

.SH Example

   The following code prints all three permutations of the string "aba".


// Run this code

 #include <algorithm>
 #include <iostream>
 #include <string>

 int main()
 {
     std::string s = "aba";

     do
     {
         std::cout << s << '\\n';
     }
     while (std::next_permutation(s.begin(), s.end()));

     std::cout << s << '\\n';
 }

.SH Output:

 aba
 baa
 aab

.SH See also

   is_permutation           determines if a sequence is a permutation of another
   \fI(C++11)\fP                  sequence
                            \fI(function template)\fP
                            generates the next smaller lexicographic permutation of a
   prev_permutation         range of elements
                            \fI(function template)\fP
   ranges::next_permutation generates the next greater lexicographic permutation of a
   (C++20)                  range of elements
                            (niebloid)
