.TH std::condition_variable_any::notify_one 3 "2020.11.17" "http://cppreference.com" "C++ Standard Libary"
.SH NAME
std::condition_variable_any::notify_one \- std::condition_variable_any::notify_one

.SH Synopsis
   void notify_one() noexcept;  \fI(since C++11)\fP

   If any threads are waiting on *this, calling notify_one unblocks one of the waiting
   threads.

.SH Parameters

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Return value

   \fI(none)\fP

.SH Notes

   The effects of notify_one()/notify_all() and each of the three atomic parts of
   wait()/wait_for()/wait_until() (unlock+wait, wakeup, and lock) take place in a
   single total order that can be viewed as modification order of an atomic variable:
   the order is specific to this individual condition_variable. This makes it
   impossible for notify_one() to, for example, be delayed and unblock a thread that
   started waiting just after the call to notify_one() was made.

   The notifying thread does not need to hold the lock on the same mutex as the one
   held by the waiting thread(s); in fact doing so is a pessimization, since the
   notified thread would immediately block again, waiting for the notifying thread to
   release the lock. However, some implementations (in particular many implementations
   of pthreads) recognize this situation and avoid this "hurry up and wait" scenario by
   transferring the waiting thread from the condition variable's queue directly to the
   queue of the mutex within the notify call, without waking it up.

   Notifying while under the lock may nevertheless be necessary when precise scheduling
   of events is required, e.g. if the waiting thread would exit the program if the
   condition is satisfied, causing destruction of the notifying thread's
   condition_variable. A spurious wakeup after mutex unlock but before notify would
   result in notify called on a destroyed object.

.SH Example

   
// Run this code

 #include <iostream>
 #include <condition_variable>
 #include <thread>
 #include <chrono>
  
 std::condition_variable_any cv;
 std::mutex cv_m;
 int i = 0;
 bool done = false;
  
 void waits()
 {
     std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk(cv_m);
     std::cout << "Waiting... \\n";
     cv.wait(lk, []{return i == 1;});
     std::cout << "...finished waiting. i == 1\\n";
     done = true;
 }
  
 void signals()
 {
     std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(1));
     std::cout << "Notifying falsely...\\n";
     cv.notify_one(); // waiting thread is notified with i == 0.
                      // cv.wait wakes up, checks i, and goes back to waiting
  
     std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk(cv_m);
     i = 1;
     while (!done)
     {
         std::cout << "Notifying true change...\\n";
         lk.unlock();
         cv.notify_one(); // waiting thread is notified with i == 1, cv.wait returns
         std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(1));
         lk.lock();
     }
 }
  
 int main()
 {
     std::thread t1(waits), t2(signals);
     t1.join();
     t2.join();
 }

.SH Possible output:

 Waiting...
 Notifying falsely...
 Notifying true change...
 ...finished waiting. i == 1

.SH See also

   notify_all notifies all waiting threads
              \fI(public member function)\fP 
   C documentation for
   cnd_signal

.SH Hidden category:

     * Pages with unreviewed LWG DR marker
